舊約 -- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第 1 章

1:1    起初神創造天地。
In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.

1:2    地是空虛混沌。淵面黑暗。神的靈執行在水面上。
And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.

1:3    神說，要有光，就有了光。
And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.

1:4    神看光是好的，就把光暗分開了。
And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness.

1:5    神稱光為晝，稱暗為夜。有晚上，有早晨，這是頭一日。
And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And the evening and the morning were the first day.

1:6    神說，諸水之間要有空氣，將水分為上下。
And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters.

1:7    神就造出空氣，將空氣以下的水，空氣以上的水分開了。事就這樣成了。
And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament: and it was so.

1:8    神稱空氣為天。有晚上，有早晨，是第二日。
And God called the firmament Heaven. And the evening and the morning were the second day.

1:9    神說，天下的水要聚在一處，使旱地露出來。事就這樣成了。
And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so.

1:10    神稱旱地為地，稱水的聚處為海。神看是好的。
And God called the dry land Earth; and the gathering together of the waters called he Seas: and God saw that it was good.

1:11    神說，地要發生青草，和結種子的菜蔬，並結果子的樹木，各從其類，果子都包著核。事就這樣成了。
And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself, upon the earth: and it was so.

1:12    於是地發生了青草，和結種子的菜蔬，各從其類，並結果子的樹木，各從其類，果子都包著核。神看著是好的。
And the earth brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed after his kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself, after his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:13    有晚上，有早晨，是第三日。
And the evening and the morning were the third day.

1:14    神說，天上要有光體，可以分晝夜，作記號，定節令，日子，年歲。
And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, and years:

1:15    並要發光在天空，普照在地上。事就這樣成了。
And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth: and it was so.

1:16    於是神造了兩個大光，大的管晝，小的管夜。又造眾星。
And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the stars also.

1:17    就把這些光擺列在天空，普照在地上。
And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth,

1:18    管理晝夜，分別明暗。神看著是好的。
And to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness: and God saw that it was good.

1:19    有晚上，有早晨，是第四日。
And the evening and the morning were the fourth day.

1:20    神說，水要多多滋生有生命的物，要有雀鳥飛在地面以上，天空之中。
And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life, and fowl that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven.

1:21    神就造出大魚和水中所滋生各樣有生命的動物，各從其類。又造出各樣飛鳥，各從其類。神看著是好的。
And God created great whales, and every living creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:22    神就賜福給這一切，說，滋生繁多，充滿海中的水。雀鳥也要多生在地上。
And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.

1:23    有晚上，有早晨，是第五日。
And the evening and the morning were the fifth day.

1:24    神說，地要生出活物來，各從其類。牲畜，昆蟲，野獸，各從其類。事就這樣成了。
And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his kind: and it was so.

1:25    於是神造出野獸，各從其類。牲畜，各從其類。地上一切昆蟲，各從其類。神看著是好的。
And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:26    神說，我們要照著我們的形像，按著我們的樣式造人，使他們管理海里的魚，空中的鳥，地上的牲畜，和全地，並地上所爬的一切昆蟲。
And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.

1:27    神就照著自己的形像造人，乃是照著他的形像造男造女。
So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them.

1:28    神就賜福給他們，又對他們說，要生養眾多，遍滿地面，治理這地。也要管理海里的魚，空中的鳥，和地上各樣行動的活物。
And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.

1:29    神說，看哪，我將遍地上一切結種子的菜蔬和一切樹上所結有核的果子，全賜給你們作食物。
And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat.

1:30    至於地上的走獸和空中的飛鳥，並各樣爬在地上有生命的物，我將青草賜給它們作食物。事就這樣成了。
And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth, wherein there is life, I have given every green herb for meat: and it was so.

1:31    神看著一切所造的都甚好。有晚上，有早晨，是第六日。
And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.
