
舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第1 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


1:1    起初神創造天地。
In the beginning God created the heaven and the earth.

1:2    地是空虛混沌。淵面黑暗。神的靈執行在水面上。
And the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God moved upon the face of the waters.

1:3    神說，要有光，就有了光。
And God said, Let there be light: and there was light.

1:4    神看光是好的，就把光暗分開了。
And God saw the light, that it was good: and God divided the light from the darkness.

1:5    神稱光為晝，稱暗為夜。有晚上，有早晨，這是頭一日。
And God called the light Day, and the darkness he called Night. And the evening and the morning were the first day.

1:6    神說，諸水之間要有空氣，將水分為上下。
And God said, Let there be a firmament in the midst of the waters, and let it divide the waters from the waters.

1:7    神就造出空氣，將空氣以下的水，空氣以上的水分開了。事就這樣成了。
And God made the firmament, and divided the waters which were under the firmament from the waters which were above the firmament: and it was so.

1:8    神稱空氣為天。有晚上，有早晨，是第二日。
And God called the firmament Heaven. And the evening and the morning were the second day.

1:9    神說，天下的水要聚在一處，使旱地露出來。事就這樣成了。
And God said, Let the waters under the heaven be gathered together unto one place, and let the dry land appear: and it was so.

1:10    神稱旱地為地，稱水的聚處為海。神看是好的。
And God called the dry land Earth; and the gathering together of the waters called he Seas: and God saw that it was good.

1:11    神說，地要發生青草，和結種子的菜蔬，並結果子的樹木，各從其類，果子都包著核。事就這樣成了。
And God said, Let the earth bring forth grass, the herb yielding seed, and the fruit tree yielding fruit after his kind, whose seed is in itself, upon the earth: and it was so.

1:12    於是地發生了青草，和結種子的菜蔬，各從其類，並結果子的樹木，各從其類，果子都包著核。神看著是好的。
And the earth brought forth grass, and herb yielding seed after his kind, and the tree yielding fruit, whose seed was in itself, after his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:13    有晚上，有早晨，是第三日。
And the evening and the morning were the third day.

1:14    神說，天上要有光體，可以分晝夜，作記號，定節令，日子，年歲。
And God said, Let there be lights in the firmament of the heaven to divide the day from the night; and let them be for signs, and for seasons, and for days, and years:

1:15    並要發光在天空，普照在地上。事就這樣成了。
And let them be for lights in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth: and it was so.

1:16    於是神造了兩個大光，大的管晝，小的管夜。又造眾星。
And God made two great lights; the greater light to rule the day, and the lesser light to rule the night: he made the stars also.

1:17    就把這些光擺列在天空，普照在地上。
And God set them in the firmament of the heaven to give light upon the earth,

1:18    管理晝夜，分別明暗。神看著是好的。
And to rule over the day and over the night, and to divide the light from the darkness: and God saw that it was good.

1:19    有晚上，有早晨，是第四日。
And the evening and the morning were the fourth day.

1:20    神說，水要多多滋生有生命的物，要有雀鳥飛在地面以上，天空之中。
And God said, Let the waters bring forth abundantly the moving creature that hath life, and fowl that may fly above the earth in the open firmament of heaven.

1:21    神就造出大魚和水中所滋生各樣有生命的動物，各從其類。又造出各樣飛鳥，各從其類。神看著是好的。
And God created great whales, and every living creature that moveth, which the waters brought forth abundantly, after their kind, and every winged fowl after his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:22    神就賜福給這一切，說，滋生繁多，充滿海中的水。雀鳥也要多生在地上。
And God blessed them, saying, Be fruitful, and multiply, and fill the waters in the seas, and let fowl multiply in the earth.

1:23    有晚上，有早晨，是第五日。
And the evening and the morning were the fifth day.

1:24    神說，地要生出活物來，各從其類。牲畜，昆蟲，野獸，各從其類。事就這樣成了。
And God said, Let the earth bring forth the living creature after his kind, cattle, and creeping thing, and beast of the earth after his kind: and it was so.

1:25    於是神造出野獸，各從其類。牲畜，各從其類。地上一切昆蟲，各從其類。神看著是好的。
And God made the beast of the earth after his kind, and cattle after their kind, and every thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind: and God saw that it was good.

1:26    神說，我們要照著我們的形像，按著我們的樣式造人，使他們管理海里的魚，空中的鳥，地上的牲畜，和全地，並地上所爬的一切昆蟲。
And God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness: and let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over the cattle, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.

1:27    神就照著自己的形像造人，乃是照著他的形像造男造女。
So God created man in his own image, in the image of God created he him; male and female created he them.

1:28    神就賜福給他們，又對他們說，要生養眾多，遍滿地面，治理這地。也要管理海里的魚，空中的鳥，和地上各樣行動的活物。
And God blessed them, and God said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth, and subdue it: and have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the fowl of the air, and over every living thing that moveth upon the earth.

1:29    神說，看哪，我將遍地上一切結種子的菜蔬和一切樹上所結有核的果子，全賜給你們作食物。
And God said, Behold, I have given you every herb bearing seed, which is upon the face of all the earth, and every tree, in the which is the fruit of a tree yielding seed; to you it shall be for meat.

1:30    至於地上的走獸和空中的飛鳥，並各樣爬在地上有生命的物，我將青草賜給它們作食物。事就這樣成了。
And to every beast of the earth, and to every fowl of the air, and to every thing that creepeth upon the earth, wherein there is life, I have given every green herb for meat: and it was so.

1:31    神看著一切所造的都甚好。有晚上，有早晨，是第六日。
And God saw every thing that he had made, and, behold, it was very good. And the evening and the morning were the sixth day.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第2 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


2:1    天地萬物都造齊了。
Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them.

2:2    到第七日，神造物的工已經完畢，就在第七日歇了他一切的工，安息了。
And on the seventh day God ended his work which he had made; and he rested on the seventh day from all his work which he had made.

2:3    神賜福給第七日，定為聖日，因為在這日神歇了他一切創造的工，就安息了。
And God blessed the seventh day, and sanctified it: because that in it he had rested from all his work which God created and made.

2:4    創造天地的來歷，在耶和華神造天地的日子，乃是這樣。
These are the generations of the heavens and of the earth when they were created, in the day that the LORD God made the earth and the heavens,

2:5    野地還沒有草木，田間的菜蔬還沒有長起來，因為耶和華神還沒有降雨在地上，也沒有人耕地。
And every plant of the field before it was in the earth, and every herb of the field before it grew: for the LORD God had not caused it to rain upon the earth, and there was not a man to till the ground.

2:6    但有霧氣從地上騰，滋潤遍地。
But there went up a mist from the earth, and watered the whole face of the ground.

2:7    耶和華神用地上的塵土造人，將生氣吹在他鼻孔裡，他就成了有靈的活人，名叫亞當。
And the LORD God formed man of the dust of the ground, and breathed into his nostrils the breath of life; and man became a living soul.

2:8    耶和華神在東方的伊甸立了一個園子，把所造的人安置在那裡。
And the LORD God planted a garden eastward in Eden; and there he put the man whom he had formed.

2:9    耶和華神使各樣的樹從地裡長出來，可以悅人的眼目，其上的果子好作食物。園子當中又有生命樹和分別善惡的樹。
And out of the ground made the LORD God to grow every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food; the tree of life also in the midst of the garden, and the tree of knowledge of good and evil.

2:10    有河從伊甸流出來，滋潤那園子，從那裡分為四道。
And a river went out of Eden to water the garden; and from thence it was parted, and became into four heads.

2:11    第一道名叫比遜，就是環繞哈腓拉全地的。在那裡有金子，
The name of the first is Pison: that is it which compasseth the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold;

2:12    並且那地的金子是好的。在那裡又有珍珠和紅瑪瑙。
And the gold of that land is good: there is bdellium and the onyx stone.

2:13    第二道河名叫基訓，就是環繞古實全地的。
And the name of the second river is Gihon: the same is it that compasseth the whole land of Ethiopia.

2:14    第三道河名叫西底結，流在亞述的東邊。第四道河就是幼發拉底河。
And the name of the third river is Hiddekel: that is it which goeth toward the east of Assyria. And the fourth river is Euphrates.

2:15    耶和華神將那人安置在伊甸園，使他修理看守。
And the LORD God took the man, and put him into the garden of Eden to dress it and to keep it.

2:16    耶和華神吩咐他說，園中各樣樹上的果子，你可以隨意吃。
And the LORD God commanded the man, saying, Of every tree of the garden thou mayest freely eat:

2:17    只是分別善惡樹上的果子，你不可吃，因為你吃的日子必定死。
But of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil, thou shalt not eat of it: for in the day that thou eatest thereof thou shalt surely die.

2:18    耶和華神說，那人獨居不好，我要為他造一個配偶幫助他。
And the LORD God said, It is not good that the man should be alone; I will make him an help meet for him.

2:19    耶和華神用土所造成的野地各樣走獸和空中各樣飛鳥都帶到那人面前，看他叫什麼。那人怎樣叫各樣的活物，那就飼它的名字。
And out of the ground the LORD God formed every beast of the field, and every fowl of the air; and brought them unto Adam to see what he would call them: and whatsoever Adam called every living creature, that was the name thereof.



2:20    那人便給一切牲畜和空中飛鳥，野地走獸都起了名。只是那人沒有遇見配偶幫助他。
And Adam gave names to all cattle, and to the fowl of the air, and to every beast of the field; but for Adam there was not found an help meet for him.

2:21    耶和華神使他沉睡，他就睡了。於是取下他的一條肋骨，又把肉合起來。
And the LORD God caused a deep sleep to fall upon Adam, and he slept: and he took one of his ribs, and closed up the flesh instead thereof;

2:22    耶和華神就用那人身上所取的肋骨，造成一個女人，領她到那人跟前。
And the rib, which the LORD God had taken from man, made he a woman, and brought her unto the man.

2:23    那人說，這是我骨中的骨，肉中的肉，可以稱她為女人，因為她是從男人身上取出來的。
And Adam said, This is now bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh: she shall be called Woman, because she was taken out of Man.

2:24    因此，人要離開父母與妻子連合，二人成為一體。
Therefore shall a man leave his father and his mother, and shall cleave unto his wife: and they shall be one flesh.

2:25    當時夫妻二人赤身露體，並不羞恥。
And they were both naked, the man and his wife, and were not ashamed.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第3 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


3:1    耶和華神所造的，惟有蛇比田野一切的活物更狡猾。蛇對女人說，神豈是真說，不許你們吃園中所有樹上的果子嗎。
Now the serpent was more subtil than any beast of the field which the LORD God had made. And he said unto the woman, Yea, hath God said, Ye shall not eat of every tree of the garden?

3:2    女人對蛇說，園中樹上的果子，我們可以吃，
And the woman said unto the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees of the garden:

3:3    惟有園當中那棵樹上的果子，神曾說，你們不可吃，也不可摸，免得你們死。
But of the fruit of the tree which is in the midst of the garden, God hath said, Ye shall not eat of it, neither shall ye touch it, lest ye die.

3:4    蛇對女人說，你們不一定死，
And the serpent said unto the woman, Ye shall not surely die:

3:5    因為神知道，你們吃的日子眼睛就明亮了，你們便如神能知道善惡。
For God doth know that in the day ye eat thereof, then your eyes shall be opened, and ye shall be as gods, knowing good and evil.

3:6    於是女人見那棵樹的果子好作食物，也悅人的眼目，且是可喜愛的，能使人有智慧，就摘下果子來吃了。又給她丈夫，她丈夫也吃了。
And when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was pleasant to the eyes, and a tree to be desired to make one wise, she took of the fruit thereof, and did eat, and gave also unto her husband with her; and he did eat.

3:7    他們二人的眼睛就明亮了，才知道自己是赤身露體，便拿無花果樹的葉子，為自己編作裙子。
And the eyes of them both were opened, and they knew that they were naked; and they sewed fig leaves together, and made themselves aprons.

3:8    天起了涼風，耶和華神在園中行走。那人和他妻子聽見神的聲音，就藏在園裡的樹木中，躲避耶和華神的面。
And they heard the voice of the LORD God walking in the garden in the cool of the day: and Adam and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the LORD God amongst the trees of the garden.

3:9    耶和華神呼喚那人，對他說，你在哪裡。
And the LORD God called unto Adam, and said unto him, Where art thou?

3:10    他說，我在園中聽見你的聲音，我就害怕。因為我赤身露體，我便藏了。
And he said, I heard thy voice in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked; and I hid myself.

3:11    耶和華說，誰告訴你赤身露體呢，莫非你吃了我吩咐你不可吃的那樹上的果子嗎。
And he said, Who told thee that thou wast naked? Hast thou eaten of the tree, whereof I commanded thee that thou shouldest not eat?

3:12    那人說，你所賜給我，與我同居的女人，她把那樹上的果子給我，我就吃了。
And the man said, The woman whom thou gavest to be with me, she gave me of the tree, and I did eat.

3:13    耶和華神對女人說，你作的是什麼事呢。女人說，那蛇引誘我，我就吃了。
And the LORD God said unto the woman, What is this that thou hast done? And the woman said, The serpent beguiled me, and I did eat.

3:14    耶和華神對蛇說，你既作了這事，就必受咒詛，比一切的牲畜野獸更甚。你必用肚子行走，終身吃土。
And the LORD God said unto the serpent, Because thou hast done this, thou art cursed above all cattle, and above every beast of the field; upon thy belly shalt thou go, and dust shalt thou eat all the days of thy life:

3:15    我又要叫你和女人彼此為仇。你的後裔和女人的後裔也彼此為仇。女人的後裔要傷你的頭，你要傷他的腳跟。
And I will put enmity between thee and the woman, and between thy seed and her seed; it shall bruise thy head, and thou shalt bruise his heel.



3:16    又對女人說，我必多多加增你懷胎的苦楚，你生產兒女必多受苦楚。你必戀慕你丈夫，你丈夫必管轄你。
Unto the woman he said, I will greatly multiply thy sorrow and thy conception; in sorrow thou shalt bring forth children; and thy desire shall be to thy husband, and he shall rule over thee.

3:17    又對亞當說，你既聽從妻子的話，吃了我所吩咐你不可吃的那樹上的果子，地必為你的緣故受咒詛。你必終身勞苦，才能從地裡得吃的。
And unto Adam he said, Because thou hast hearkened unto the voice of thy wife, and hast eaten of the tree, of which I commanded thee, saying, Thou shalt not eat of it: cursed is the ground for thy sake; in sorrow shalt thou eat of it all the days of thy life;

3:18    地必給你長出荊棘和蒺藜來，你也要吃田間的菜蔬。
Thorns also and thistles shall it bring forth to thee; and thou shalt eat the herb of the field;

3:19    你必汗流滿面才得餬口，直到你歸了土，因為你是從土而出的。你本是塵土，仍要歸於塵土。
In the sweat of thy face shalt thou eat bread, till thou return unto the ground; for out of it wast thou taken: for dust thou art, and unto dust shalt thou return.

3:20    亞當給他妻子起名叫夏娃，因為她是眾生之母。
And Adam called his wife's name Eve; because she was the mother of all living.

3:21    耶和華神為亞當和他妻子用皮子作衣服給他們穿。
Unto Adam also and to his wife did the LORD God make coats of skins, and clothed them.

3:22    耶和華神說，那人已經與我們相似，能知道善惡。現在恐怕他伸手又摘生命樹的果子吃，就永遠活著。
And the LORD God said, Behold, the man is become as one of us, to know good and evil: and now, lest he put forth his hand, and take also of the tree of life, and eat, and live for ever:

3:23    耶和華神便打發他出伊甸園去，耕種他所自出之土。
Therefore the LORD God sent him forth from the garden of Eden, to till the ground from whence he was taken.

3:24    於是把他趕出去了。又在伊甸園的東邊安設基路伯和四面轉動發火焰的劍，要把守生命樹的道路。
So he drove out the man; and he placed at the east of the garden of Eden Cherubims, and a flaming sword which turned every way, to keep the way of the tree of life.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第4 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


4:1    有一日，那人和他妻子夏娃同房。夏娃就懷孕，生了該隱（就是得的意思），便說，耶和華使我得了一個男子。
And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and said, I have gotten a man from the LORD.

4:2    又生了該隱的兄弟亞伯。亞伯是牧羊的，該隱是種地的。
And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, but Cain was a tiller of the ground.

4:3    有一日，該隱拿地裡的出產為供物獻給耶和華。
And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the fruit of the ground an offering unto the LORD.

4:4    亞伯也將他羊群中頭生的和羊的脂油獻上。耶和華看中了亞伯和他的供物，
And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the fat thereof. And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his offering:

4:5    只是看不中該隱和他的供物。該隱就大大地發怒，變了臉色。
But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was very wroth, and his countenance fell.

4:6    耶和華對該隱說，你為什麼發怒呢，你為什麼變了臉色呢。
And the LORD said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy countenance fallen?

4:7    你若行得好，豈不蒙悅納，你若行得不好，罪就伏在門前。它必戀慕你，你卻要制伏它。
If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? and if thou doest not well, sin lieth at the door. And unto thee shall be his desire, and thou shalt rule over him.

4:8    該隱與他兄弟亞伯說話，二人正在田間。該隱起來打他兄弟亞伯，把他殺了。
And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, when they were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew him.

4:9    耶和華對該隱說，你兄弟亞伯在那裡。他說，我不知道，我豈是看守我兄弟的嗎。
And the LORD said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he said, I know not: Am I my brother's keeper?

4:10    耶和華說，你作了什麼事呢，你兄弟的血，有聲音從地裡向我哀告。
And he said, What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood crieth unto me from the ground.

4:11    地開了口，從你手裡接受你兄弟的血。現在你必從這地受咒詛。
And now art thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened her mouth to receive thy brother's blood from thy hand;

4:12    你種地，地不再給你效力。你必流離飄蕩在地上。
When thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee her strength; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth.

4:13    該隱對耶和華說，我的刑罰太重，過於我所能當的。
And Cain said unto the LORD, My punishment is greater than I can bear.

4:14    你如今趕逐我離開這地，以致不見你面。我必流離飄蕩在地上，凡遇見我的必殺我。
Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the earth; and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond in the earth; and it shall come to pass, that every one that findeth me shall slay me.

4:15    耶和華對他說，凡殺該隱的，必遭報七倍。耶和華就給該隱立一個記號，免得人遇見他就殺他。
And the LORD said unto him, Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the LORD set a mark upon Cain, lest any finding him should kill him.

4:16    於是該隱離開耶和華的面，去住在伊甸東邊挪得之地。
And Cain went out from the presence of the LORD, and dwelt in the land of Nod, on the east of Eden.

4:17    該隱與妻子同房，他妻子就懷孕，生了以諾。該隱建造了一座城，就按著他兒子的名，將那城叫作以諾。
And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and he builded a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his son, Enoch.

4:18    以諾生以拿。以拿生米戶雅利。米戶雅利生瑪土撒利。瑪土撒利生拉麥。
And unto Enoch was born Irad: and Irad begat Mehujael: and Mehujael begat Methusael: and Methusael begat Lamech.

4:19    拉麥娶了兩個妻，一個名叫亞大，一個名叫洗拉。
And Lamech took unto him two wives: the name of the one was Adah, and the name of the other Zillah.

4:20    亞大生雅八。雅八就是住帳棚，牧養牲畜之人的祖師。
And Adah bare Jabal: he was the father of such as dwell in tents, and of such as have cattle.

4:21    雅八的兄弟名叫猶八。他是一切彈琴吹簫之人的祖師。
And his brother's name was Jubal: he was the father of all such as handle the harp and organ.

4:22    洗拉又生了土八該隱。他是打造各樣銅鐵利器的（或作是銅匠鐵匠的祖師）。土八該隱的妹子是拿瑪。
And Zillah, she also bare Tubalcain, an instructer of every artificer in brass and iron: and the sister of Tubalcain was Naamah.

4:23    拉麥對他兩個妻子說，亞大，洗拉，聽我的聲音。拉麥的妻子，細聽我的話語，壯年人傷我，我把他殺了。少年人損我，我把他害了。
And Lamech said unto his wives, Adah and Zillah, Hear my voice; ye wives of Lamech, hearken unto my speech: for I have slain a man to my wounding, and a young man to my hurt.

4:24    若殺該隱，遭報七倍。殺拉麥，必遭報七十七倍。
If Cain shall be avenged sevenfold, truly Lamech seventy and sevenfold.

4:25    亞當又與妻子同房，她就生了一個兒子，起名叫塞特，意思說，神另給我立了一個兒子代替亞伯，因為該隱殺了他。
And Adam knew his wife again; and she bare a son, and called his name Seth: For God, said she, hath appointed me another seed instead of Abel, whom Cain slew.

4:26    塞特也生了一個兒子，起名叫以挪士。那時候，人才求告耶和華的名。
And to Seth, to him also there was born a son; and he called his name Enos: then began men to call upon the name of the LORD.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第5 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


5:1    亞當的後代記在下面。當神造人的日子，是照著自己的樣式造的。
This is the book of the generations of Adam. In the day that God created man, in the likeness of God made he him;

5:2    並且造男造女。在他們被造的日子，神賜福給他們，稱他們為人。
Male and female created he them; and blessed them, and called their name Adam, in the day when they were created.

5:3    亞當活到一百三十歲，生了一個兒子，形像樣式和自己相似，就給他起名叫塞特。
And Adam lived an hundred and thirty years, and begat a son in his own likeness, after his image; and called his name Seth:

5:4    亞當生塞特之後，又在世八百年，並且生兒養女。
And the days of Adam after he had begotten Seth were eight hundred years: and he begat sons and daughters:

5:5    亞當共活了九百三十歲就死了。
And all the days that Adam lived were nine hundred and thirty years: and he died.

5:6    塞特活到一百零五歲，生了以挪士。
And Seth lived an hundred and five years, and begat Enos:

5:7    塞特生以挪士之後，又活了八百零七年，並且生兒養女。
And Seth lived after he begat Enos eight hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters:

5:8    塞特共活了九百一十二歲就死了。
And all the days of Seth were nine hundred and twelve years: and he died.

5:9    以挪士活到九十歲，生了該南。
And Enos lived ninety years, and begat Cainan:

5:10    以挪士生該南之後，又活了八百一十五年，並且生兒養女。
And Enos lived after he begat Cainan eight hundred and fifteen years, and begat sons and daughters:

5:11    以挪士共活了九百零五歲就死了。
And all the days of Enos were nine hundred and five years: and he died.

5:12    該南活到七十歲，生了瑪勒列。
And Cainan lived seventy years, and begat Mahalaleel:

5:13    該南生瑪勒列之後，又活了八百四十年，並且生兒養女。
And Cainan lived after he begat Mahalaleel eight hundred and forty years, and begat sons and daughters:

5:14    該南共活了九百一十歲就死了。
And all the days of Cainan were nine hundred and ten years: and he died.

5:15    瑪勒列活到六十五歲，生了雅列。
And Mahalaleel lived sixty and five years, and begat Jared:

5:16    瑪勒列生雅列之後，又活了八百三十年，並且生兒養女。
And Mahalaleel lived after he begat Jared eight hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters:

5:17    瑪勒列共活了八百九十五歲就死了。
And all the days of Mahalaleel were eight hundred ninety and five years: and he died.

5:18    雅列活到一百六十二歲，生了以諾。
And Jared lived an hundred sixty and two years, and he begat Enoch:

5:19    雅列生以諾之後，又活了八百年，並且生兒養女。
And Jared lived after he begat Enoch eight hundred years, and begat sons and daughters:

5:20    雅列共活了九百六十二歲就死了。
And all the days of Jared were nine hundred sixty and two years: and he died.

5:21    以諾活到六十五歲，生了瑪土撒拉。
And Enoch lived sixty and five years, and begat Methuselah:

5:22    以諾生瑪土撒拉之後，與神同行三百年，並且生兒養女。
And Enoch walked with God after he begat Methuselah three hundred years, and begat sons and daughters:

5:23    以諾共活了三百六十五歲。
And all the days of Enoch were three hundred sixty and five years:

5:24    以諾與神同行，神將他取去，他就不在世了。
And Enoch walked with God: and he was not; for God took him.

5:25    瑪土撒拉活到一百八十七歲，生了拉麥。
And Methuselah lived an hundred eighty and seven years, and begat Lamech:

5:26    瑪土撒拉生拉麥之後，又活了七百八十二年，並且生兒養女。
And Methuselah lived after he begat Lamech seven hundred eighty and two years, and begat sons and daughters:

5:27    瑪土撒拉共活了九百六十九歲就死了。
And all the days of Methuselah were nine hundred sixty and nine years: and he died.

5:28    拉麥活到一百八十二歲，生了一個兒子，
And Lamech lived an hundred eighty and two years, and begat a son:

5:29    給他起名叫挪亞，說，這個兒子必為我們的操作和手中的勞苦安慰我們。這操作勞苦是因為耶和華咒詛地。
And he called his name Noah, saying, This same shall comfort us concerning our work and toil of our hands, because of the ground which the LORD hath cursed.

5:30    拉麥生挪亞之後，又活了五百九十五年，並且生兒養女。
And Lamech lived after he begat Noah five hundred ninety and five years, and begat sons and daughters:

5:31    拉麥共活了七百七十七歲就死了。
And all the days of Lamech were seven hundred seventy and seven years: and he died.

5:32    挪亞五百歲生了閃，含，雅弗。
And Noah was five hundred years old: and Noah begat Shem, Ham, and Japheth.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第6 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


6:1    當人在世上多起來，又生女兒的時候，
And it came to pass, when men began to multiply on the face of the earth, and daughters were born unto them,

6:2    神的兒子們看見人的女子美貌，就隨意挑選，娶來為妻。
That the sons of God saw the daughters of men that they were fair; and they took them wives of all which they chose.

6:3    耶和華說，人既屬乎血氣，我的靈就不永遠住在他裡面。然而他的日子還可到一百二十年。
And the LORD said, My spirit shall not always strive with man, for that he also is flesh: yet his days shall be an hundred and twenty years.

6:4    那時候有偉人在地上，後來神的兒子們和人的女子們交合生子，那就是上古英武有名的人。
There were giants in the earth in those days; and also after that, when the sons of God came in unto the daughters of men, and they bare children to them, the same became mighty men which were of old, men of renown.

6:5    耶和華見人在地上罪惡很大，終日所思想的盡都是惡。
And God saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth, and that every imagination of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually.

6:6    耶和華就後悔造人在地上，心中憂傷。
And it repented the LORD that he had made man on the earth, and it grieved him at his heart.

6:7    耶和華說，我要將所造的人和走獸，並昆蟲，以及空中的飛鳥，都從地上除滅，因為我造他們後悔了。
And the LORD said, I will destroy man whom I have created from the face of the earth; both man, and beast, and the creeping thing, and the fowls of the air; for it repenteth me that I have made them.

6:8    惟有挪亞在耶和華眼前蒙恩。
But Noah found grace in the eyes of the LORD.

6:9    挪亞的後代記在下面。挪亞是個義人，在當時的世代是個完全人。挪亞與神同行。
These are the generations of Noah: Noah was a just man and perfect in his generations, and Noah walked with God.

6:10    挪亞生了三個兒子，就是閃，含，雅弗。
And Noah begat three sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

6:11    世界在神面前敗壞，地上滿了強暴。
The earth also was corrupt before God, and the earth was filled with violence.

6:12    神觀看世界，見是敗壞了。凡有血氣的人，在地上都敗壞了行為。
And God looked upon the earth, and, behold, it was corrupt; for all flesh had corrupted his way upon the earth.

6:13    神就對挪亞說，凡有血氣的人，他的盡頭已經來到我面前。因為地上滿了他們的強暴，我要把他們和地一併毀滅。
And God said unto Noah, The end of all flesh is come before me; for the earth is filled with violence through them; and, behold, I will destroy them with the earth.

6:14    你要用歌斐木造一隻方舟，分一間一間地造，裡外抹上松香。
Make thee an ark of gopher wood; rooms shalt thou make in the ark, and shalt pitch it within and without with pitch.

6:15    方舟的造法乃是這樣，要長三百肘，寬五十肘，高三十肘。
And this is the fashion which thou shalt make it of: The length of the ark shall be three hundred cubits, the breadth of it fifty cubits, and the height of it thirty cubits.

6:16    方舟上邊要留透光處，高一肘。方舟的門要開在旁邊。方舟要分上，中，下三層。
A window shalt thou make to the ark, and in a cubit shalt thou finish it above; and the door of the ark shalt thou set in the side thereof; with lower, second, and third stories shalt thou make it.

6:17    看哪！我要使洪水氾濫在地上，毀滅天下。凡地上有血肉，有氣息的活物，無一不死。
And, behold, I, even I, do bring a flood of waters upon the earth, to destroy all flesh, wherein is the breath of life, from under heaven; and every thing that is in the earth shall die.

6:18    我卻要與你立約，你同你的妻，與兒子，兒婦，都要進入方舟。
But with thee will I establish my covenant; and thou shalt come into the ark, thou, and thy sons, and thy wife, and thy sons' wives with thee.

6:19    凡有血肉的活物，每樣兩個，一公一母，你要帶進方舟，好在你那裡保全生命。
And of every living thing of all flesh, two of every sort shalt thou bring into the ark, to keep them alive with thee; they shall be male and female.

6:20    飛鳥各從其類，牲畜各從其類，地上的昆蟲各從其類。每樣兩個，要到你那裡，好保全生命。
Of fowls after their kind, and of cattle after their kind, of every creeping thing of the earth after his kind, two of every sort shall come unto thee, to keep them alive.

6:21    你要拿各樣食物積蓄起來，好作你和它們的食物。
And take thou unto thee of all food that is eaten, and thou shalt gather it to thee; and it shall be for food for thee, and for them.

6:22    挪亞就這樣行。凡神所吩咐的，他都照樣行了。
Thus did Noah; according to all that God commanded him, so did he.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第7 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


7:1    耶和華對挪亞說，你和你的全家都要進入方舟，因為在這世代中，我見你在我面前是義人。
And the LORD said unto Noah, Come thou and all thy house into the ark; for thee have I seen righteous before me in this generation.

7:2    凡潔淨的畜類，你要帶七公七母。不潔淨的畜類，你要帶一公一母。
Of every clean beast thou shalt take to thee by sevens, the male and his female: and of beasts that are not clean by two, the male and his female.

7:3    空中的飛鳥，也要帶七公七母，可以留種，活在全地上。
Of fowls also of the air by sevens, the male and the female; to keep seed alive upon the face of all the earth.

7:4    因為再過七天，我要降雨在地上四十晝夜，把我所造的各種活物，都從地上除滅。
For yet seven days, and I will cause it to rain upon the earth forty days and forty nights; and every living substance that I have made will I destroy from off the face of the earth.

7:5    挪亞就遵著耶和華所吩咐的行了。
And Noah did according unto all that the LORD commanded him.

7:6    當洪水氾濫在地上的時候，挪亞整六百歲。
And Noah was six hundred years old when the flood of waters was upon the earth.



7:7    挪亞就同他的妻和兒子，兒婦，都進入方舟，躲避洪水。
And Noah went in, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him, into the ark, because of the waters of the flood.

7:8    潔淨的畜類和不潔淨的畜類，飛鳥並地上一切的昆蟲，
Of clean beasts, and of beasts that are not clean, and of fowls, and of every thing that creepeth upon the earth,

7:9    都是一對一對的，有公有母，到挪亞那裡進入方舟，正如神所吩咐挪亞的。
There went in two and two unto Noah into the ark, the male and the female, as God had commanded Noah.

7:10    過了那七天，洪水氾濫在地上。
And it came to pass after seven days, that the waters of the flood were upon the earth.

7:11    當挪亞六百歲，二月十七日那一天，大淵的泉源都裂開了，天上的窗戶也敞開了。
In the six hundredth year of Noah's life, in the second month, the seventeenth day of the month, the same day were all the fountains of the great deep broken up, and the windows of heaven were opened.

7:12    四十晝夜降大雨在地上。
And the rain was upon the earth forty days and forty nights.

7:13    正當那日，挪亞和他三個兒子閃，含，雅弗，並挪亞的妻子和三個兒婦，都進入方舟。
In the selfsame day entered Noah, and Shem, and Ham, and Japheth, the sons of Noah, and Noah's wife, and the three wives of his sons with them, into the ark;

7:14    他們和百獸，各從其類。一切牲畜，各從其類。爬在地上的昆蟲，各從其類。一切禽鳥，各從其類。都進入方舟。
They, and every beast after his kind, and all the cattle after their kind, and every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth after his kind, and every fowl after his kind, every bird of every sort.

7:15    凡有血肉，有氣息的活物，都一對一對的到挪亞那裡，進入方舟。
And they went in unto Noah into the ark, two and two of all flesh, wherein is the breath of life.

7:16    凡有血肉進入方舟的，都是有公有母，正如神所吩咐挪亞的。耶和華就把他關在方舟裡頭。
And they that went in, went in male and female of all flesh, as God had commanded him: and the LORD shut him in.

7:17    洪水氾濫在地上四十天，水往上長，把方舟從地上漂起。
And the flood was forty days upon the earth; and the waters increased, and bare up the ark, and it was lift up above the earth.

7:18    水勢浩大，在地上大大地往上長，方舟在水面上漂來漂去。
And the waters prevailed, and were increased greatly upon the earth; and the ark went upon the face of the waters.

7:19    水勢在地上極其浩大，天下的高山都淹沒了。
And the waters prevailed exceedingly upon the earth; and all the high hills, that were under the whole heaven, were covered.

7:20    水勢比山高過十五肘，山嶺都淹沒了。
Fifteen cubits upward did the waters prevail; and the mountains were covered.

7:21    凡在地上有血肉的動物，就是飛鳥，牲畜，走獸，和爬在地上的昆蟲，以及所有的人都死了。
And all flesh died that moved upon the earth, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of beast, and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth, and every man:

7:22    凡在旱地上，鼻孔有氣息的生靈都死了。
All in whose nostrils was the breath of life, of all that was in the dry land, died.

7:23    凡地上各類的活物，連人帶牲畜，昆蟲，以及空中的飛鳥，都從地上除滅了，只留下挪亞和那些與他同在方舟裡的。
And every living substance was destroyed which was upon the face of the ground, both man, and cattle, and the creeping things, and the fowl of the heaven; and they were destroyed from the earth: and Noah only remained alive, and they that were with him in the ark.

7:24    水勢浩大，在地上共一百五十天。
And the waters prevailed upon the earth an hundred and fifty days.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第8 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


8:1    神記念挪亞和挪亞方舟裡的一切走獸牲畜。神叫風吹地，水勢漸落。
And God remembered Noah, and every living thing, and all the cattle that was with him in the ark: and God made a wind to pass over the earth, and the waters asswaged;

8:2    淵源和天上的窗戶都閉塞了，天上的大雨也止住了。
The fountains also of the deep and the windows of heaven were stopped, and the rain from heaven was restrained;

8:3    水從地上漸退。過了一百五十天，水就漸消。
And the waters returned from off the earth continually: and after the end of the hundred and fifty days the waters were abated.

8:4    七月十七日，方舟停在亞拉臘山上。
And the ark rested in the seventh month, on the seventeenth day of the month, upon the mountains of Ararat.

8:5    水又漸消，到十月初一日，山頂都現出來了。
And the waters decreased continually until the tenth month: in the tenth month, on the first day of the month, were the tops of the mountains seen.

8:6    過了四十天，挪亞開了方舟的窗戶，
And it came to pass at the end of forty days, that Noah opened the window of the ark which he had made:

8:7    放出一隻烏鴉去。那烏鴉飛來飛去，直到地上的水都乾了。
And he sent forth a raven, which went forth to and fro, until the waters were dried up from off the earth.

8:8    他又放出一隻鴿子去，要看看水從地上退了沒有。
Also he sent forth a dove from him, to see if the waters were abated from off the face of the ground;

8:9    但遍地上都是水，鴿子找不著落腳之地，就回到方舟挪亞那裡，挪亞伸手把鴿子接進方舟來。
But the dove found no rest for the sole of her foot, and she returned unto him into the ark, for the waters were on the face of the whole earth: then he put forth his hand, and took her, and pulled her in unto him into the ark.

8:10    他又等了七天，再把鴿子從方舟放出去。
And he stayed yet other seven days; and again he sent forth the dove out of the ark;

8:11    到了晚上，鴿子回到他那裡，嘴裡叼著一個新擰下來的橄欖葉子，挪亞就知道地上的水退了。
And the dove came in to him in the evening; and, lo, in her mouth was an olive leaf pluckt off: so Noah knew that the waters were abated from off the earth.

8:12    他又等了七天，放出鴿子去，鴿子就不再回來了。
And he stayed yet other seven days; and sent forth the dove; which returned not again unto him any more.

8:13    到挪亞六百零一歲，正月初一日，地上的水都乾了。挪亞撤去方舟的蓋觀看，便見地面上乾了。
And it came to pass in the six hundredth and first year, in the first month, the first day of the month, the waters were dried up from off the earth: and Noah removed the covering of the ark, and looked, and, behold, the face of the ground was dry.

8:14    到了二月二十七日，地就都乾了。
And in the second month, on the seven and twentieth day of the month, was the earth dried.

8:15    神對挪亞說，
And God spake unto Noah, saying,

8:16    你和你的妻子，兒子，兒婦都可以出方舟。
Go forth of the ark, thou, and thy wife, and thy sons, and thy sons' wives with thee.

8:17    在你那裡凡有血肉的活物，就是飛鳥，牲畜，和一切爬在地上的昆蟲，都要帶出來，叫它在地上多多滋生，大大興旺。
Bring forth with thee every living thing that is with thee, of all flesh, both of fowl, and of cattle, and of every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth; that they may breed abundantly in the earth, and be fruitful, and multiply upon the earth.

8:18    於是挪亞和他的妻子，兒子，兒婦，都出來了。
And Noah went forth, and his sons, and his wife, and his sons' wives with him:

8:19    一切走獸，昆蟲，飛鳥，和地上所有的動物，各從其類，也都出了方舟。
Every beast, every creeping thing, and every fowl, and whatsoever creepeth upon the earth, after their kinds, went forth out of the ark.

8:20    挪亞為耶和華築了一座壇，拿各類潔淨的牲畜，飛鳥獻在壇上為燔祭。
And Noah builded an altar unto the LORD; and took of every clean beast, and of every clean fowl, and offered burnt offerings on the altar.

8:21    耶和華聞那馨香之氣，就心裡說，我不再因人的緣故咒詛地（人從小時心裡懷著惡念），也不再按著我才行的，滅各種的活物了。
And the LORD smelled a sweet savour; and the LORD said in his heart, I will not again curse the ground any more for man's sake; for the imagination of man's heart is evil from his youth; neither will I again smite any more every thing living, as I have done.

8:22    地還存留的時候，稼穡，寒暑，冬夏，晝夜就永不停息了。
While the earth remaineth, seedtime and harvest, and cold and heat, and summer and winter, and day and night shall not cease.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第9 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


9:1    神賜福給挪亞和他的兒子，對他們說，你們要生養眾多，遍滿了地。
And God blessed Noah and his sons, and said unto them, Be fruitful, and multiply, and replenish the earth.

9:2    凡地上的走獸和空中的飛鳥，都必驚恐，懼怕你們。連地上一切的昆蟲並海里一切的魚，都交付你們的手。
And the fear of you and the dread of you shall be upon every beast of the earth, and upon every fowl of the air, upon all that moveth upon the earth, and upon all the fishes of the sea; into your hand are they delivered.

9:3    凡活著的動物，都可以作你們的食物。這一切我都賜給你們，如同菜蔬一樣。
Every moving thing that liveth shall be meat for you; even as the green herb have I given you all things.

9:4    惟獨肉帶著血，那就是它的生命，你們不可吃。
But flesh with the life thereof, which is the blood thereof, shall ye not eat.

9:5    流你們血，害你們命的，無論是獸，是人，我必討他的罪，就是向各人的弟兄也是如此。
And surely your blood of your lives will I require; at the hand of every beast will I require it, and at the hand of man; at the hand of every man's brother will I require the life of man.

9:6    凡流人血的，他的血也必被人所流。因為神造人是照自己的形像造的。
Whoso sheddeth man's blood, by man shall his blood be shed: for in the image of God made he man.

9:7    你們要生養眾多，在地上昌盛繁茂。
And you, be ye fruitful, and multiply; bring forth abundantly in the earth, and multiply therein.

9:8    神曉諭挪亞和他的兒子說，
And God spake unto Noah, and to his sons with him, saying,

9:9    我與你們和你們的後裔立約，
And I, behold, I establish my covenant with you, and with your seed after you;



9:10    並與你們這裡的一切活物，就是飛鳥，牲畜，走獸，凡從方舟裡出來的活物立約。
And with every living creature that is with you, of the fowl, of the cattle, and of every beast of the earth with you; from all that go out of the ark, to every beast of the earth.

9:11    我與你們立約，凡有血肉的，不再被洪水滅絕，也不再有洪水毀壞地了。
And I will establish my covenant with you; neither shall all flesh be cut off any more by the waters of a flood; neither shall there any more be a flood to destroy the earth.

9:12    神說，我與你們並你們這裡的各樣活物所立的永約，是有記號的。
And God said, This is the token of the covenant which I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you, for perpetual generations:

9:13    我把虹放在雲彩中，這就可作我與地立約的記號了。
I do set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be for a token of a covenant between me and the earth.

9:14    我使雲彩蓋地的時候，必有虹現在雲彩中，
And it shall come to pass, when I bring a cloud over the earth, that the bow shall be seen in the cloud:

9:15    我便記念我與你們和各樣有血肉的活物所立的約，水就再不氾濫，毀壞一切有血肉的物了。
And I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh; and the waters shall no more become a flood to destroy all flesh.

9:16    虹必現在雲彩中，我看見，就要記念我與地上各樣有血肉的活物所立的永約。
And the bow shall be in the cloud; and I will look upon it, that I may remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is upon the earth.

9:17    神對挪亞說，這就是我與地上一切有血肉之物立約的記號了。
And God said unto Noah, This is the token of the covenant, which I have established between me and all flesh that is upon the earth.

9:18    出方舟挪亞的兒子就是閃，含，雅弗。含是迦南的父親。
And the sons of Noah, that went forth of the ark, were Shem, and Ham, and Japheth: and Ham is the father of Canaan.

9:19    這是挪亞的三個兒子，他們的後裔分散在全地。
These are the three sons of Noah: and of them was the whole earth overspread.

9:20    挪亞作起農夫來，栽了一個葡萄園。
And Noah began to be an husbandman, and he planted a vineyard:

9:21    他喝了園中的酒便醉了，在帳棚裡赤著身子。
And he drank of the wine, and was drunken; and he was uncovered within his tent.

9:22    迦南的父親含，看見他父親赤身，就到外邊告訴他兩個弟兄。
And Ham, the father of Canaan, saw the nakedness of his father, and told his two brethren without.

9:23    於是閃和雅弗，拿件衣服搭在肩上，倒退著進去，給他父親蓋上。他們揹著臉就看不見父親的赤身。
And Shem and Japheth took a garment, and laid it upon both their shoulders, and went backward, and covered the nakedness of their father; and their faces were backward, and they saw not their father's nakedness.

9:24    挪亞醒了酒，知道小兒子向他所作的事，
And Noah awoke from his wine, and knew what his younger son had done unto him.

9:25    就說，迦南當受咒詛，必給他弟兄作奴僕的奴僕。
And he said, Cursed be Canaan; a servant of servants shall he be unto his brethren.

9:26    又說，耶和華閃的神，是應當稱頌的，願迦南作閃的奴僕。
And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant.

9:27    願神使雅弗擴張，使他住在閃的帳棚裡，又願迦南作他的奴僕。
God shall enlarge Japheth, and he shall dwell in the tents of Shem; and Canaan shall be his servant.

9:28    洪水以後，挪亞又活了三百五十年。
And Noah lived after the flood three hundred and fifty years.

9:29    挪亞共活了九百五十歲就死了。
And all the days of Noah were nine hundred and fifty years: and he died.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第10 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


10:1    挪亞的兒子閃，含，雅弗的後代，記在下面。洪水以後，他們都生了兒子。
Now these are the generations of the sons of Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth: and unto them were sons born after the flood.

10:2    雅弗的兒子是歌篾，瑪各，瑪代，雅完，土巴，米設，提拉。
The sons of Japheth; Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.

10:3    歌篾的兒子是亞實基拿，利法，陀迦瑪。
And the sons of Gomer; Ashkenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.

10:4    雅完的兒子是以利沙，他施，基提，多單。
And the sons of Javan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.

10:5    這些人的後裔，將各國的地土，海島，分開居住，各隨各的方言，宗族立國。
By these were the isles of the Gentiles divided in their lands; every one after his tongue, after their families, in their nations.

10:6    含的兒子是古實，麥西，弗，迦南。
And the sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizraim, and Phut, and Canaan.

10:7    古實的兒子是西巴，哈腓拉，撒弗他，拉瑪，撒弗提迦。拉瑪的兒子是示巴，底但。
And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabtah, and Raamah, and Sabtechah: and the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan.

10:8    古實又生寧錄，他為世上英雄之首。
And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be a mighty one in the earth.

10:9    他在耶和華面前是個英勇的獵戶，所以俗語說，像寧錄在耶和華面前是個英勇的獵戶。
He was a mighty hunter before the LORD: wherefore it is said, Even as Nimrod the mighty hunter before the LORD.

10:10    他國的起頭是巴別，以力，亞甲，甲尼，都在示拿地。
And the beginning of his kingdom was Babel, and Erech, and Accad, and Calneh, in the land of Shinar.

10:11    他從那地出來往亞述去，建造尼尼微，利河伯，迦拉，
Out of that land went forth Asshur, and builded Nineveh, and the city Rehoboth, and Calah,

10:12    和尼尼微，迦拉中間的利鮮，這就是那大城。
And Resen between Nineveh and Calah: the same is a great city.

10:13    麥西生路低人，亞拿米人，利哈比人，拿弗土希人，
And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,

10:14    帕斯魯細人，迦斯路希人，迦斐託人。從迦斐托出來的有非利士人。
And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (out of whom came Philistim,) and Caphtorim.

10:15    迦南生長子西頓，又生赫
And Canaan begat Sidon his first born, and Heth,

10:16    和耶布斯人，亞摩利人，革迦撒人，
And the Jebusite, and the Amorite, and the Girgasite,

10:17    希未人，亞基人，西尼人，
And the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,

10:18    亞瓦底人，洗瑪利人，哈馬人，後來迦南的諸族分散了。
And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite: and afterward were the families of the Canaanites spread abroad.

10:19    迦南的境界是從西頓向基拉耳的路上，直到迦薩，又向所多瑪，蛾摩拉，押瑪，洗扁的路上，直到拉沙。
And the border of the Canaanites was from Sidon, as thou comest to Gerar, unto Gaza; as thou goest, unto Sodom, and Gomorrah, and Admah, and Zeboim, even unto Lasha.

10:20    這就是含的後裔，各隨他們的宗族，方言，所住的地土，邦國。
These are the sons of Ham, after their families, after their tongues, in their countries, and in their nations.

10:21    雅弗的哥哥閃，是希伯子孫之祖，他也生了兒子。
Unto Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the brother of Japheth the elder, even to him were children born.

10:22    閃的兒子是以攔，亞述，亞法撒，路德，亞蘭。
The children of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram.

10:23    亞蘭的兒子是烏斯，戶勒，基帖，瑪施。
And the children of Aram; Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Mash.

10:24    亞法撒生沙拉。沙拉生希伯。
And Arphaxad begat Salah; and Salah begat Eber.

10:25    希伯生了兩個兒子，一個名叫法勒（法勒就是分的意思），因為那時人就分地居住。法勒的兄弟名叫約坍。
And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of one was Peleg; for in his days was the earth divided; and his brother's name was Joktan.

10:26    約坍生亞摩答，沙列，哈薩瑪非，耶拉，
And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,

10:27    哈多蘭，烏薩，德拉，
And Hadoram, and Uzal, and Diklah,

10:28    俄巴路，亞比瑪利，示巴，
And Obal, and Abimael, and Sheba,

10:29    阿斐，哈腓拉，約巴，這都是約坍的兒子。
And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab: all these were the sons of Joktan.

10:30    他們所住的地方，是從米沙直到西發東邊的山。
And their dwelling was from Mesha, as thou goest unto Sephar a mount of the east.

10:31    這就是閃的子孫，各隨他們的宗族，方言，所住的地土，邦國。
These are the sons of Shem, after their families, after their tongues, in their lands, after their nations.

10:32    這些都是挪亞三個兒子的宗族，各隨他們的支派立國。洪水以後，他們在地上分為邦國。
These are the families of the sons of Noah, after their generations, in their nations: and by these were the nations divided in the earth after the flood.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第11 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


11:1    那時，天下人的口音，言語，都是一樣。
And the whole earth was of one language, and of one speech.

11:2    他們往東邊遷移的時候，在示拿地遇見一片平原，就住在那裡。
And it came to pass, as they journeyed from the east, that they found a plain in the land of Shinar; and they dwelt there.

11:3    他們彼此商量說，來吧，我們要作磚，把磚燒透了。他們就拿磚當石頭，又拿石漆當灰泥。
And they said one to another, Go to, let us make brick, and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone, and slime had they for morter.

11:4    他們說，來吧，我們要建造一座城和一座塔，塔頂通天，為要傳揚我們的名，免得我們分散在全地上。
And they said, Go to, let us build us a city and a tower, whose top may reach unto heaven; and let us make us a name, lest we be scattered abroad upon the face of the whole earth.

11:5    耶和華降臨，要看看世人所建造的城和塔。
And the LORD came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of men builded.

11:6    耶和華說，看哪，他們成為一樣的人民，都是一樣的言語，如今既作起這事來，以後他們所要作的事就沒有不成就的了。
And the LORD said, Behold, the people is one, and they have all one language; and this they begin to do: and now nothing will be restrained from them, which they have imagined to do.

11:7    我們下去，在那裡變亂他們的口音，使他們的言語彼此不通。
Go to, let us go down, and there confound their language, that they may not understand one another's speech.

11:8    於是，耶和華使他們從那裡分散在全地上。他們就停工，不造那城了。
So the LORD scattered them abroad from thence upon the face of all the earth: and they left off to build the city.

11:9    因為耶和華在那裡變亂天下人的言語，使眾人分散在全地上，所以那城名叫巴別（就是變亂的意思）。
Therefore is the name of it called Babel; because the LORD did there confound the language of all the earth: and from thence did the LORD scatter them abroad upon the face of all the earth.

11:10    閃的後代記在下面。洪水以後二年，閃一百歲生了亞法撒。
These are the generations of Shem: Shem was an hundred years old, and begat Arphaxad two years after the flood:

11:11    閃生亞法撒之後，又活了五百年，並且生兒養女。
And Shem lived after he begat Arphaxad five hundred years, and begat sons and daughters.

11:12    亞法撒活到三十五歲，生了沙拉。
And Arphaxad lived five and thirty years, and begat Salah:

11:13    亞法撒生沙拉之後，又活了四百零三年，並且生兒養女。
And Arphaxad lived after he begat Salah four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters.

11:14    沙拉活到三十歲，生了希伯。
And Salah lived thirty years, and begat Eber:

11:15    沙拉生希伯之後又活了四百零三年，並且生兒養女。
And Salah lived after he begat Eber four hundred and three years, and begat sons and daughters.

11:16    希伯活到三十四歲，生了法勒。
And Eber lived four and thirty years, and begat Peleg:

11:17    希伯生法勒之後，又活了四百三十年，並且生兒養女。
And Eber lived after he begat Peleg four hundred and thirty years, and begat sons and daughters.

11:18    法勒活到三十歲，生了拉吳。
And Peleg lived thirty years, and begat Reu:

11:19    法勒生拉吳之後，又活了二百零九年，並且生兒養女。
And Peleg lived after he begat Reu two hundred and nine years, and begat sons and daughters.

11:20    拉吳活到三十二歲，生了西鹿。
And Reu lived two and thirty years, and begat Serug:

11:21    拉吳生西鹿之後，又活了二百零七年，並且生兒養女。
And Reu lived after he begat Serug two hundred and seven years, and begat sons and daughters.

11:22    西鹿活到三十歲，生了拿鶴。
And Serug lived thirty years, and begat Nahor:

11:23    西鹿生拿鶴之後，又活了二百年，並且生兒養女。
And Serug lived after he begat Nahor two hundred years, and begat sons and daughters.

11:24    拿鶴活到二十九歲，生了他拉。
And Nahor lived nine and twenty years, and begat Terah:

11:25    拿鶴生他拉之後，又活了一百一十九年，並且生兒養女。
And Nahor lived after he begat Terah an hundred and nineteen years, and begat sons and daughters.

11:26    他拉活到七十歲，生了亞伯蘭，拿鶴，哈蘭。
And Terah lived seventy years, and begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran.

11:27    他拉的後代，記在下面，他拉生亞伯蘭，拿鶴，哈蘭。哈蘭生羅得。
Now these are the generations of Terah: Terah begat Abram, Nahor, and Haran; and Haran begat Lot.

11:28    哈蘭死在他的本地迦勒底的吾珥，在他父親他拉之先。
And Haran died before his father Terah in the land of his nativity, in Ur of the Chaldees.

11:29    亞伯蘭，拿鶴各娶了妻。亞伯蘭的妻子名叫撒萊。拿鶴的妻子名叫密迦，是哈蘭的女兒。哈蘭是密迦和亦迦的父親。
And Abram and Nahor took them wives: the name of Abram's wife was Sarai; and the name of Nahor's wife, Milcah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milcah, and the father of Iscah.

11:30    撒萊不生育，沒有孩子。
But Sarai was barren; she had no child.

11:31    他拉帶著他兒子，亞伯蘭和他孫子，哈蘭的兒子羅得，並他兒婦亞伯蘭的妻子撒萊，出了迦勒底的吾珥，要往迦南地去。他們走到哈蘭，就住在那裡。
And Terah took Abram his son, and Lot the son of Haran his son's son, and Sarai his daughter in law, his son Abram's wife; and they went forth with them from Ur of the Chaldees, to go into the land of Canaan; and they came unto Haran, and dwelt there.

11:32    他拉共活了二百零五歲，就死在哈蘭。
And the days of Terah were two hundred and five years: and Terah died in Haran.






舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第12 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


12:1    耶和華對亞伯蘭說，你要離開本地，本族，父家，往我所要指示你的地去。
Now the LORD had said unto Abram, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and from thy father's house, unto a land that I will shew thee:

12:2    我必叫你成為大國，我必賜福給你，叫你的名為大，你也要叫別人得福。
And I will make of thee a great nation, and I will bless thee, and make thy name great; and thou shalt be a blessing:

12:3    為你祝福的，我必賜福與他。那咒詛你的，我必咒詛他，地上的萬族都要因你得福。
And I will bless them that bless thee, and curse him that curseth thee: and in thee shall all families of the earth be blessed.

12:4    亞伯蘭就照著耶和華的吩咐去了。羅得也和他同去。亞伯蘭出哈蘭的時候，年七十五歲。
So Abram departed, as the LORD had spoken unto him; and Lot went with him: and Abram was seventy and five years old when he departed out of Haran.

12:5    亞伯蘭將他妻子撒萊和侄兒羅得，連他們在哈蘭所積蓄的財物，所得的人口，都帶往迦南地去。他們就到了迦南地。
And Abram took Sarai his wife, and Lot his brother's son, and all their substance that they had gathered, and the souls that they had gotten in Haran; and they went forth to go into the land of Canaan; and into the land of Canaan they came.

12:6    亞伯蘭經過那地，到了示劍地方，摩利橡樹那裡。那時迦南人住在那地。
And Abram passed through the land unto the place of Sichem, unto the plain of Moreh. And the Canaanite was then in the land.

12:7    耶和華向亞伯蘭顯現，說，我要把這地賜給你的後裔。亞伯蘭就在那裡為向他顯現的耶和華築了一座壇。
And the LORD appeared unto Abram, and said, Unto thy seed will I give this land: and there builded he an altar unto the LORD, who appeared unto him.

12:8    從那裡他又遷到伯特利東邊的山，支搭帳棚。西邊是伯特利，東邊是艾。他在那裡又為耶和華築了一座壇，求告耶和華的名。
And he removed from thence unto a mountain on the east of Bethel, and pitched his tent, having Bethel on the west, and Hai on the east: and there he builded an altar unto the LORD, and called upon the name of the LORD.

12:9    後來亞伯蘭又漸漸遷往南地去。
And Abram journeyed, going on still toward the south.

12:10    那地遭遇饑荒。因饑荒甚大，亞伯蘭就下埃及去，要在那裡暫居。
And there was a famine in the land: and Abram went down into Egypt to sojourn there; for the famine was grievous in the land.

12:11    將近埃及，就對他妻子撒萊說，我知道你是容貌俊美的婦人。
And it came to pass, when he was come near to enter into Egypt, that he said unto Sarai his wife, Behold now, I know that thou art a fair woman to look upon:

12:12    埃及人看見你必說，這是他的妻子，他們就要殺我，卻叫你存活。
Therefore it shall come to pass, when the Egyptians shall see thee, that they shall say, This is his wife: and they will kill me, but they will save thee alive.

12:13    求你說，你是我的妹子，使我因你得平安，我的命也因你存活。
Say, I pray thee, thou art my sister: that it may be well with me for thy sake; and my soul shall live because of thee.

12:14    及至亞伯蘭到了埃及，埃及人看見那婦人極其美貌。
And it came to pass, that, when Abram was come into Egypt, the Egyptians beheld the woman that she was very fair.

12:15    法老的臣宰看見了她，就在法老面前誇獎她。那婦人就被帶進法老的宮去。
The princes also of Pharaoh saw her, and commended her before Pharaoh: and the woman was taken into Pharaoh's house.

12:16    法老因這婦人就厚待亞伯蘭，亞伯蘭得了許多牛，羊，駱駝，公驢，母驢，僕婢。
And he entreated Abram well for her sake: and he had sheep, and oxen, and he asses, and menservants, and maidservants, and she asses, and camels.

12:17    耶和華因亞伯蘭妻子撒萊的緣故，降大災與法老和他的全家。
And the LORD plagued Pharaoh and his house with great plagues because of Sarai Abram's wife.

12:18    法老就召了亞伯蘭來，說，你這向我作的是什麼事呢，為什麼沒有告訴我她是你的妻子，
And Pharaoh called Abram, and said, What is this that thou hast done unto me? why didst thou not tell me that she was thy wife?

12:19    為什麼說她是你的妹子，以致我把她取來要作我的妻子，現在你的妻子在這裡，可以帶她走吧。
Why saidst thou, She is my sister? so I might have taken her to me to wife: now therefore behold thy wife, take her, and go thy way.

12:20    於是法老吩咐人將亞伯蘭和他妻子，並他所有的都送走了。
And Pharaoh commanded his men concerning him: and they sent him away, and his wife, and all that he had.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第13 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


13:1    亞伯蘭帶著他的妻子與羅得，並一切所有的，都從埃及上南地去。
And Abram went up out of Egypt, he, and his wife, and all that he had, and Lot with him, into the south.

13:2    亞伯蘭的金，銀，牲畜極多。
And Abram was very rich in cattle, in silver, and in gold.

13:3    他從南地漸漸往伯特利去，到了伯特利和艾的中間，就是從前支搭帳棚的地方，
And he went on his journeys from the south even to Bethel, unto the place where his tent had been at the beginning, between Bethel and Hai;

13:4    也是他起先築壇的地方，他又在那裡求告耶和華的名。
Unto the place of the altar, which he had made there at the first: and there Abram called on the name of the LORD.

13:5    與亞伯蘭同行的羅得也有牛群，羊群，帳棚。
And Lot also, which went with Abram, had flocks, and herds, and tents.

13:6    那地容不下他們，因為他們的財物甚多，使他們不能同居。
And the land was not able to bear them, that they might dwell together: for their substance was great, so that they could not dwell together.

13:7    當時，迦南人與比利洗人在那地居住。亞伯蘭的牧人和羅得的牧人相爭。
And there was a strife between the herdmen of Abram's cattle and the herdmen of Lot's cattle: and the Canaanite and the Perizzite dwelled then in the land.

13:8    亞伯蘭就對羅得說，你我不可相爭，你的牧人和我的牧人也不可相爭，因為我們是骨肉（原文作弟兄）。
And Abram said unto Lot, Let there be no strife, I pray thee, between me and thee, and between my herdmen and thy herdmen; for we be brethren.

13:9    遍地不都在你眼前嗎。請你離開我，你向左，我就向右。你向右，我就向左。
Is not the whole land before thee? separate thyself, I pray thee, from me: if thou wilt take the left hand, then I will go to the right; or if thou depart to the right hand, then I will go to the left.

13:10    羅得舉目看見約旦河的全平原，直到瑣珥，都是滋潤的，那地在耶和華未滅所多瑪，蛾摩拉以先如同耶和華的園子，也像埃及地。
And Lot lifted up his eyes, and beheld all the plain of Jordan, that it was well watered every where, before the LORD destroyed Sodom and Gomorrah, even as the garden of the LORD, like the land of Egypt, as thou comest unto Zoar.

13:11    於是羅得選擇約旦河的全平原，往東遷移。他們就彼此分離了。
Then Lot chose him all the plain of Jordan; and Lot journeyed east: and they separated themselves the one from the other.

13:12    亞伯蘭住在迦南地，羅得住在平原的城邑，漸漸挪移帳棚，直到所多瑪。
Abram dwelled in the land of Canaan, and Lot dwelled in the cities of the plain, and pitched his tent toward Sodom.

13:13    所多瑪人在耶和華面前罪大惡極。
But the men of Sodom were wicked and sinners before the LORD exceedingly.

13:14    羅得離別亞伯蘭以後，耶和華對亞伯蘭說，從你所在的地方，你舉目向東西南北觀看。
And the LORD said unto Abram, after that Lot was separated from him, Lift up now thine eyes, and look from the place where thou art northward, and southward, and eastward, and westward:

13:15    凡你所看見的一切地，我都要賜給你和你的後裔，直到永遠。
For all the land which thou seest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed for ever.

13:16    我也要使你的後裔如同地上的塵沙那樣多，人若能數算地上的塵沙才能數算你的後裔。
And I will make thy seed as the dust of the earth: so that if a man can number the dust of the earth, then shall thy seed also be numbered.

13:17    你起來，縱橫走遍這地，因為我必把這地賜給你。
Arise, walk through the land in the length of it and in the breadth of it; for I will give it unto thee.

13:18    亞伯蘭就搬了帳棚，來到希伯侖幔利的橡樹那裡居住，在那裡為耶和華築了一座壇。
Then Abram removed his tent, and came and dwelt in the plain of Mamre, which is in Hebron, and built there an altar unto the LORD.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第14 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


14:1    當暗拉非作示拿王，亞略作以拉撒王，基大老瑪作以攔王，提達作戈印王的時候，
And it came to pass in the days of Amraphel king of Shinar, Arioch king of Ellasar, Chedorlaomer king of Elam, and Tidal king of nations;

14:2    他們都攻打所多瑪王比拉，蛾摩拉王比沙，押瑪王示納，洗扁王善以別，和比拉王。比拉就是瑣珥。
That these made war with Bera king of Sodom, and with Birsha king of Gomorrah, Shinab king of Admah, and Shemeber king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela, which is Zoar.

14:3    這五王都在西訂谷會合。西訂谷就是鹽海。
All these were joined together in the vale of Siddim, which is the salt sea.

14:4    他們已經事奉基大老瑪十二年，到十三年就背叛了。
Twelve years they served Chedorlaomer, and in the thirteenth year they rebelled.

14:5    十四年，基大老瑪和同盟的王都來在亞特律加寧，殺敗了利乏音人，在哈麥殺敗了蘇西人，在沙微基列亭殺敗了以米人，
And in the fourteenth year came Chedorlaomer, and the kings that were with him, and smote the Rephaims in Ashteroth Karnaim, and the Zuzims in Ham, and the Emims in Shaveh Kiriathaim,

14:6    在何利人的西珥山殺敗了何利人，一直殺到靠近曠野的伊勒巴蘭。
And the Horites in their mount Seir, unto Elparan, which is by the wilderness.

14:7    他們回到安密巴，就是加低斯，殺敗了亞瑪力全地的人，以及住在哈洗遜他瑪的亞摩利人。
And they returned, and came to Enmishpat, which is Kadesh, and smote all the country of the Amalekites, and also the Amorites, that dwelt in Hazezontamar.

14:8    於是所多瑪王，蛾摩拉王，押瑪王，洗扁王，和比拉王（比拉就是瑣珥）都出來，在西訂谷擺陣，與他們交戰，
And there went out the king of Sodom, and the king of Gomorrah, and the king of Admah, and the king of Zeboiim, and the king of Bela (the same is Zoar;) and they joined battle with them in the vale of Siddim;

14:9    就是與以攔王基大老瑪，戈印王提達，示拿王暗拉非，以拉撒王亞略交戰。乃是四王與五王交戰。
With Chedorlaomer the king of Elam, and with Tidal king of nations, and Amraphel king of Shinar, and Arioch king of Ellasar; four kings with five.

14:10    西訂谷有許多石漆坑。所多瑪王和蛾摩拉王逃跑，有掉在坑裡的，其餘的人都往山上逃跑。
And the vale of Siddim was full of slimepits; and the kings of Sodom and Gomorrah fled, and fell there; and they that remained fled to the mountain.

14:11    四王就把所多瑪和蛾摩拉所有的財物，並一切的糧食都擄掠去了。
And they took all the goods of Sodom and Gomorrah, and all their victuals, and went their way.

14:12    又把亞伯蘭的侄兒羅得和羅得的財物擄掠去了。當時羅得正住在所多瑪。
And they took Lot, Abram's brother's son, who dwelt in Sodom, and his goods, and departed.

14:13    有一個逃出來的人告訴希伯來人亞伯蘭。亞伯蘭正住在亞摩利人幔利的橡樹那裡。幔利和以實各並亞乃都是弟兄，曾與亞伯蘭聯盟。
And there came one that had escaped, and told Abram the Hebrew; for he dwelt in the plain of Mamre the Amorite, brother of Eshcol, and brother of Aner: and these were confederate with Abram.

14:14    亞伯蘭聽見他侄兒（原文是弟兄）被擄去，就率領他家裡生養的精練壯丁三百一十八人，直追到但，
And when Abram heard that his brother was taken captive, he armed his trained servants, born in his own house, three hundred and eighteen, and pursued them unto Dan.

14:15    便在夜間，自己同僕人分隊殺敗敵人，又追到大馬士革左邊的何把，
And he divided himself against them, he and his servants, by night, and smote them, and pursued them unto Hobah, which is on the left hand of Damascus.

14:16    將被擄掠的一切財物奪回來，連他侄兒羅得和他的財物，以及婦女，人民也都奪回來。
And he brought back all the goods, and also brought again his brother Lot, and his goods, and the women also, and the people.

14:17    亞伯蘭殺敗基大老瑪和與他同盟的王回來的時候，所多瑪王出來，在沙微谷迎接他。沙微谷就是王谷。
And the king of Sodom went out to meet him after his return from the slaughter of Chedorlaomer, and of the kings that were with him, at the valley of Shaveh, which is the king's dale.

14:18    又有撒冷王麥基洗德帶著餅和酒出來迎接。他是至高神的祭司。
And Melchizedek king of Salem brought forth bread and wine: and he was the priest of the most high God.

14:19    他為亞伯蘭祝福，說，願天地的主，至高的神賜福與亞伯蘭
And he blessed him, and said, Blessed be Abram of the most high God, possessor of heaven and earth:

14:20    至高的神把敵人交在你手裡，是應當稱頌的。亞伯蘭就把所得的拿出十分之一來，給麥基洗德。
And blessed be the most high God, which hath delivered thine enemies into thy hand. And he gave him tithes of all.

14:21    所多瑪王對亞伯蘭說，你把人口給我，財物你自己拿去吧。
And the king of Sodom said unto Abram, Give me the persons, and take the goods to thyself.

14:22    亞伯蘭對所多瑪王說，我已經向天地的主至高的神耶和華起誓。
And Abram said to the king of Sodom, I have lift up mine hand unto the LORD, the most high God, the possessor of heaven and earth,

14:23    凡是你的東西，就是一根線，一根鞋帶，我都不拿，免得你說，我使亞伯蘭富足。
That I will not take from a thread even to a shoelatchet, and that I will not take any thing that is thine, lest thou shouldest say, I have made Abram rich:

14:24    只有僕人所吃的，並與我同行的亞乃，以實各，幔利所應得的分，可以任憑他們拿去。
Save only that which the young men have eaten, and the portion of the men which went with me, Aner, Eshcol, and Mamre; let them take their portion.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第15 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


15:1    這事以後，耶和華在異象中有話對亞伯蘭說，亞伯蘭，你不要懼怕，我是你的盾牌，必大大地賞賜你。
After these things the word of the LORD came unto Abram in a vision, saying, Fear not, Abram: I am thy shield, and thy exceeding great reward.

15:2    亞伯蘭說，主耶和華阿，我既無子，你還賜我什麼呢，並且要承受我家業的是大馬士革人以利以謝。
And Abram said, LORD God, what wilt thou give me, seeing I go childless, and the steward of my house is this Eliezer of Damascus?

15:3    亞伯蘭又說，你沒有給我兒子。那生在我家中的人就是我的後嗣。
And Abram said, Behold, to me thou hast given no seed: and, lo, one born in my house is mine heir.

15:4    耶和華又有話對他說，這人必不成為你的後嗣。你本身所生的才成為你的後嗣。
And, behold, the word of the LORD came unto him, saying, This shall not be thine heir; but he that shall come forth out of thine own bowels shall be thine heir.

15:5    於是領他走到外邊，說，你向天觀看，數算眾星，能數得過來嗎。又對他說，你的後裔將要如此。
And he brought him forth abroad, and said, Look now toward heaven, and tell the stars, if thou be able to number them: and he said unto him, So shall thy seed be.

15:6    亞伯蘭信耶和華，耶和華就以此為他的義。
And he believed in the LORD; and he counted it to him for righteousness.

15:7    耶和華又對他說，我是耶和華，曾領你出了迦勒底的吾珥，為要將這地賜你為業。
And he said unto him, I am the LORD that brought thee out of Ur of the Chaldees, to give thee this land to inherit it.

15:8    亞伯蘭說，主耶和華阿，我怎能知道必得這地為業呢。
And he said, LORD God, whereby shall I know that I shall inherit it?

15:9    他說，你為我取一隻三年的母牛，一隻三年的母山羊，一隻三年的公綿羊，一隻斑鳩，一隻雛鴿。
And he said unto him, Take me an heifer of three years old, and a she goat of three years old, and a ram of three years old, and a turtledove, and a young pigeon.

15:10    亞伯蘭就取了這些來，每樣劈開，分成兩半，一半對著一半地擺列，只有鳥沒有劈開。
And he took unto him all these, and divided them in the midst, and laid each piece one against another: but the birds divided he not.

15:11    有鷙鳥下來，落在那死畜的肉上，亞伯蘭就把它嚇飛了。
And when the fowls came down upon the carcases, Abram drove them away.

15:12    日頭正落的時候，亞伯蘭沉沉地睡了。忽然有驚人的大黑暗落在他身上。
And when the sun was going down, a deep sleep fell upon Abram; and, lo, an horror of great darkness fell upon him.

15:13    耶和華對亞伯蘭說，你要的確知道，你的後裔必寄居別人的地，又服事那地的人。那地的人要苦待他們四百年。
And he said unto Abram, Know of a surety that thy seed shall be a stranger in a land that is not theirs, and shall serve them; and they shall afflict them four hundred years;

15:14    並且他們所要服事的那國，我要懲罰，後來他們必帶著許多財物從那裡出來。
And also that nation, whom they shall serve, will I judge: and afterward shall they come out with great substance.

15:15    但你要享大壽數，平平安安地歸到你列祖那裡，被人埋葬。
And thou shalt go to thy fathers in peace; thou shalt be buried in a good old age.

15:16    到了第四代，他們必回到此地，因為亞摩利人的罪孽還沒有滿盈。
But in the fourth generation they shall come hither again: for the iniquity of the Amorites is not yet full.

15:17    日落天黑，不料有冒煙的爐並燒著的火把從那些肉塊中經過。
And it came to pass, that, when the sun went down, and it was dark, behold a smoking furnace, and a burning lamp that passed between those pieces.

15:18    當那日，耶和華與亞伯蘭立約，說，我已賜給你的後裔，從埃及河直到伯大河之地，
In the same day the LORD made a covenant with Abram, saying, Unto thy seed have I given this land, from the river of Egypt unto the great river, the river Euphrates:

15:19    就是基尼人，基尼洗人，甲摩尼人，
The Kenites, and the Kenizzites, and the Kadmonites,

15:20    赫人，比利洗人，利乏音人，
And the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Rephaims,

15:21    亞摩利人，迦南人，革迦撒人，耶布斯人之地。
And the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Girgashites, and the Jebusites.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第16 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


16:1    亞伯蘭的妻子撒萊不給他生兒女。撒萊有一個使女，名叫夏甲，是埃及人。
Now Sarai Abram's wife bare him no children: and she had an handmaid, an Egyptian, whose name was Hagar.

16:2    撒萊對亞伯蘭說，耶和華使我不能生育。求你和我的使女同房，或者我可以因她得孩子（得孩子原文作被建立）。亞伯蘭聽從了撒萊的話。
And Sarai said unto Abram, Behold now, the LORD hath restrained me from bearing: I pray thee, go in unto my maid; it may be that I may obtain children by her. And Abram hearkened to the voice of Sarai.

16:3    於是亞伯蘭的妻子撒萊將使女埃及人夏甲給了丈夫為妾。那時亞伯蘭在迦南已經住了十年。
And Sarai Abram's wife took Hagar her maid the Egyptian, after Abram had dwelt ten years in the land of Canaan, and gave her to her husband Abram to be his wife.

16:4    亞伯蘭與夏甲同房，夏甲就懷了孕。她見自己有孕，就小看她的主母。
And he went in unto Hagar, and she conceived: and when she saw that she had conceived, her mistress was despised in her eyes.

16:5    撒萊對亞伯蘭說，我因你受屈。我將我的使女放在你懷中，她見自己有了孕，就小看我。願耶和華在你我中間判斷。
And Sarai said unto Abram, My wrong be upon thee: I have given my maid into thy bosom; and when she saw that she had conceived, I was despised in her eyes: the LORD judge between me and thee.

16:6    亞伯蘭對撒萊說，使女在你手下，你可以隨意待她。撒萊苦待她，她就從撒萊面前逃走了。
But Abram said unto Sarai, Behold, thy maid is in thy hand; do to her as it pleaseth thee. And when Sarai dealt hardly with her, she fled from her face.

16:7    耶和華的使者在曠野書珥路上的水泉旁遇見她，
And the angel of the LORD found her by a fountain of water in the wilderness, by the fountain in the way to Shur.

16:8    對她說，撒萊的使女夏甲，你從哪裡來，要往哪裡去。夏甲說，我從我的主母撒萊面前逃出來。
And he said, Hagar, Sarai's maid, whence camest thou? and whither wilt thou go? And she said, I flee from the face of my mistress Sarai.

16:9    耶和華的使者對她說，你回到你主母那裡，服在她手下。
And the angel of the LORD said unto her, Return to thy mistress, and submit thyself under her hands.

16:10    又說，我必使你的後裔極其繁多，甚至不可勝數。
And the angel of the LORD said unto her, I will multiply thy seed exceedingly, that it shall not be numbered for multitude.

16:11    並說，你如今懷孕要生一個兒子，可以給他起名叫以實瑪利，因為耶和華聽見了你的苦情。（以實瑪利就是神聽見的意思）
And the angel of the LORD said unto her, Behold, thou art with child, and shalt bear a son, and shalt call his name Ishmael; because the LORD hath heard thy affliction.

16:12    他為人必像野驢。他的手要攻打人，人的手也要攻打他。他必住在眾弟兄的東邊。
And he will be a wild man; his hand will be against every man, and every man's hand against him; and he shall dwell in the presence of all his brethren.

16:13    夏甲就稱那對她說話的耶和華為『看顧人的神』。因而說，在這裡我也看見那看顧我的嗎。
And she called the name of the LORD that spake unto her, Thou God seest me: for she said, Have I also here looked after him that seeth me?

16:14    所以這井名叫庇耳拉海萊。這井正在加低斯和巴列中間。
Wherefore the well was called Beerlahairoi; behold, it is between Kadesh and Bered.

16:15    後來夏甲給亞伯蘭生了一個兒子。亞伯蘭給他起名叫以實瑪利。
And Hagar bare Abram a son: and Abram called his son's name, which Hagar bare, Ishmael.

16:16    夏甲給亞伯蘭生以實瑪利的時候，亞伯蘭年八十六歲。
And Abram was fourscore and six years old, when Hagar bare Ishmael to Abram.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第17 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


17:1    亞伯蘭年九十九歲的時候，耶和華向他顯現，對他說，我是全能的神。你當在我面前作完全人，
And when Abram was ninety years old and nine, the LORD appeared to Abram, and said unto him, I am the Almighty God; walk before me, and be thou perfect.

17:2    我就與你立約，使你的後裔極其繁多。
And I will make my covenant between me and thee, and will multiply thee exceedingly.

17:3    亞伯蘭俯伏在地。神又對他說，
And Abram fell on his face: and God talked with him, saying,

17:4    我與你立約，你要作多國的父。
As for me, behold, my covenant is with thee, and thou shalt be a father of many nations.

17:5    從此以後，你的名不再叫亞伯蘭，要叫亞伯拉罕，因為我已立你作多國的父。
Neither shall thy name any more be called Abram, but thy name shall be Abraham; for a father of many nations have I made thee.

17:6    我必使你的後裔極其繁多。國度從你而立，君王從你而出。
And I will make thee exceeding fruitful, and I will make nations of thee, and kings shall come out of thee.

17:7    我要與你並你世世代代的後裔堅立我的約，作永遠的約，是要作你和你後裔的神。
And I will establish my covenant between me and thee and thy seed after thee in their generations for an everlasting covenant, to be a God unto thee, and to thy seed after thee.

17:8    我要將你現在寄居的地，就是迦南全地，賜給你和你的後裔永遠為業，我也必作他們的神。
And I will give unto thee, and to thy seed after thee, the land wherein thou art a stranger, all the land of Canaan, for an everlasting possession; and I will be their God.

17:9    神又對亞伯拉罕說，你和你的後裔，必世世代代遵守我的約。
And God said unto Abraham, Thou shalt keep my covenant therefore, thou, and thy seed after thee in their generations.

17:10    你們所有的男子，都要受割禮。這就是我與你，並你的後裔所立的約，是你們所當遵守的。
This is my covenant, which ye shall keep, between me and you and thy seed after thee; Every man child among you shall be circumcised.

17:11    你們都要受割禮（受割禮原文作割陽皮。14 ，23 ，24 ，25節同），這是我與你們立約的證據。
And ye shall circumcise the flesh of your foreskin; and it shall be a token of the covenant betwixt me and you.

17:12    你們世世代代的男子，無論是家裡生的，是在你後裔之外用銀子從外人買的，生下來第八日，都要受割禮。
And he that is eight days old shall be circumcised among you, every man child in your generations, he that is born in the house, or bought with money of any stranger, which is not of thy seed.

17:13    你家裡生的和你用銀子買的，都必須受割禮。這樣，我的約就立在你們肉體上作永遠的約。
He that is born in thy house, and he that is bought with thy money, must needs be circumcised: and my covenant shall be in your flesh for an everlasting covenant.

17:14    但不受割禮的男子，必從民中剪除，因他背了我的約。
And the uncircumcised man child whose flesh of his foreskin is not circumcised, that soul shall be cut off from his people; he hath broken my covenant.

17:15    神又對亞伯拉罕說，你的妻子撒萊，不可再叫撒萊，她的名要叫撒拉。
And God said unto Abraham, As for Sarai thy wife, thou shalt not call her name Sarai, but Sarah shall her name be.

17:16    我必賜福給她，也要使你從她得一個兒子。我要賜福給她，她也要作多國之母。必有百姓的君王從她而出。
And I will bless her, and give thee a son also of her: yea, I will bless her, and she shall be a mother of nations; kings of people shall be of her.

17:17    亞伯拉罕就俯伏在地喜笑，心裡說，一百歲的人還能得孩子嗎。撒拉已經九十歲了，還能生養嗎。
Then Abraham fell upon his face, and laughed, and said in his heart, Shall a child be born unto him that is an hundred years old? and shall Sarah, that is ninety years old, bear?

17:18    亞伯拉罕對神說，但願以實瑪利活在你面前。
And Abraham said unto God, O that Ishmael might live before thee!

17:19    神說，不然，你妻子撒拉要給你生一個兒子，你要給他起名叫以撒。我要與他堅定所立的約，作他後裔永遠的約。
And God said, Sarah thy wife shall bear thee a son indeed; and thou shalt call his name Isaac: and I will establish my covenant with him for an everlasting covenant, and with his seed after him.

17:20    至於以實瑪利，我也應允你，我必賜福給他，使他昌盛極其繁多，他必生十二個族長，我也要使他成為大國。
And as for Ishmael, I have heard thee: Behold, I have blessed him, and will make him fruitful, and will multiply him exceedingly; twelve princes shall he beget, and I will make him a great nation.

17:21    到明年這時節，撒拉必給你生以撒，我要與他堅定所立的約。
But my covenant will I establish with Isaac, which Sarah shall bear unto thee at this set time in the next year.

17:22    神和亞伯拉罕說完了話，就離開他上升去了。
And he left off talking with him, and God went up from Abraham.

17:23    正當那日，亞伯拉罕遵著神的命，給他的兒子以實瑪利和家裡的一切男子，無論是在家裡生的，是用銀子買的，都行了割禮。
And Abraham took Ishmael his son, and all that were born in his house, and all that were bought with his money, every male among the men of Abraham's house; and circumcised the flesh of their foreskin in the selfsame day, as God had said unto him.

17:24    亞伯拉罕受割禮的時候，年九十九歲。
And Abraham was ninety years old and nine, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.

17:25    他兒子以實瑪利受割禮的時候，年十三歲。
And Ishmael his son was thirteen years old, when he was circumcised in the flesh of his foreskin.

17:26    正當那日，亞伯拉罕和他兒子以實瑪利，一同受了割禮。
In the selfsame day was Abraham circumcised, and Ishmael his son.

17:27    家裡所有的人，無論是在家裡生的，是用銀子從外人買的，也都一同受了割禮。
And all the men of his house, born in the house, and bought with money of the stranger, were circumcised with him.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第18 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


18:1    耶和華在幔利橡樹那裡，向亞伯拉罕顯現出來。那時正熱，亞伯拉罕坐在帳棚門口，
And the LORD appeared unto him in the plains of Mamre: and he sat in the tent door in the heat of the day;

18:2    舉目觀看，見有三個人在對面站著。他一見，就從帳棚門口跑去迎接他們，俯伏在地，
And he lift up his eyes and looked, and, lo, three men stood by him: and when he saw them, he ran to meet them from the tent door, and bowed himself toward the ground,

18:3    說，我主，我若在你眼前蒙恩，求你不要離開僕人往前去。
And said, My LORD, if now I have found favour in thy sight, pass not away, I pray thee, from thy servant:

18:4    容我拿點水來，你們洗洗腳，在樹下歇息歇息。
Let a little water, I pray you, be fetched, and wash your feet, and rest yourselves under the tree:

18:5    我再拿一點餅來，你們可以加添心力，然後往前去。你們既到僕人這裡來，理當如此。他們說，就照你說的行吧。
And I will fetch a morsel of bread, and comfort ye your hearts; after that ye shall pass on: for therefore are ye come to your servant. And they said, So do, as thou hast said.

18:6    亞伯拉罕急忙進帳棚見撒拉，說，你速速拿三細亞細面調和作餅。
And Abraham hastened into the tent unto Sarah, and said, Make ready quickly three measures of fine meal, knead it, and make cakes upon the hearth.

18:7    亞伯拉罕又跑到牛群裡，牽了一隻又嫩又好的牛犢來，交給僕人，僕人急忙預備好了。
And Abraham ran unto the herd, and fetcht a calf tender and good, and gave it unto a young man; and he hasted to dress it.

18:8    亞伯拉罕又取了奶油和奶，並預備好的牛犢來，擺在他們面前，自己在樹下站在旁邊，他們就吃了。
And he took butter, and milk, and the calf which he had dressed, and set it before them; and he stood by them under the tree, and they did eat.

18:9    他們問亞伯拉罕說，你妻子撒拉在哪裡。他說，在帳棚裡。
And they said unto him, Where is Sarah thy wife? And he said, Behold, in the tent.

18:10    三人中有一位說，到明年這時候，我必要回到你這裡。你的妻子撒拉必生一個兒子。撒拉在那人後邊的帳棚門口也聽見了這話。
And he said, I will certainly return unto thee according to the time of life; and, lo, Sarah thy wife shall have a son. And Sarah heard it in the tent door, which was behind him.

18:11    亞伯拉罕和撒拉年紀老邁，撒拉的月經已斷絕了。
Now Abraham and Sarah were old and well stricken in age; and it ceased to be with Sarah after the manner of women.



18:12    撒拉心裡暗笑，說，我既已衰敗，我主也老邁，豈能有這喜事呢。
Therefore Sarah laughed within herself, saying, After I am waxed old shall I have pleasure, my lord being old also?

18:13    耶和華對亞伯拉罕說，撒拉為什麼暗笑，說，我既已年老，果真能生養嗎。
And the LORD said unto Abraham, Wherefore did Sarah laugh, saying, Shall I of a surety bear a child, which am old?

18:14    耶和華豈有難成的事嗎。到了日期，明年這時候，我必回到你這裡，撒拉必生一個兒子。
Is any thing too hard for the LORD? At the time appointed I will return unto thee, according to the time of life, and Sarah shall have a son.

18:15    撒拉就害怕，不承認，說，我沒有笑。那位說，不然，你實在笑了。
Then Sarah denied, saying, I laughed not; for she was afraid. And he said, Nay; but thou didst laugh.

18:16    三人就從那裡起行，向所多瑪觀看，亞伯拉罕也與他們同行，要送他們一程。
And the men rose up from thence, and looked toward Sodom: and Abraham went with them to bring them on the way.

18:17    耶和華說，我所要作的事，豈可瞞著亞伯拉罕呢。
And the LORD said, Shall I hide from Abraham that thing which I do;

18:18    亞伯拉罕必要成為強大的國，地上的萬國都必因他得福。
Seeing that Abraham shall surely become a great and mighty nation, and all the nations of the earth shall be blessed in him?

18:19    我眷顧他，為要叫他吩咐他的眾子和他的眷屬，遵守我的道，秉公行義，使我所應許亞伯拉罕的話都成就了。
For I know him, that he will command his children and his household after him, and they shall keep the way of the LORD, to do justice and judgment; that the LORD may bring upon Abraham that which he hath spoken of him.

18:20    耶和華說，所多瑪和蛾摩拉的罪惡甚重，聲聞於我。
And the LORD said, Because the cry of Sodom and Gomorrah is great, and because their sin is very grievous;

18:21    我現在要下去，察看他們所行的，果然盡像那達到我耳中的聲音一樣嗎。若是不然，我也必知道。
I will go down now, and see whether they have done altogether according to the cry of it, which is come unto me; and if not, I will know.

18:22    二人轉身離開那裡，向所多瑪去。但亞伯拉罕仍舊站在耶和華面前。
And the men turned their faces from thence, and went toward Sodom: but Abraham stood yet before the LORD.

18:23    亞伯拉罕近前來，說，無論善惡，你都要剿滅嗎。
And Abraham drew near, and said, Wilt thou also destroy the righteous with the wicked?

18:24    假若那城裡有五十個義人，你還剿滅那地方嗎。不為城裡這五十個義人饒恕其中的人嗎。
Peradventure there be fifty righteous within the city: wilt thou also destroy and not spare the place for the fifty righteous that are therein?

18:25    將義人與惡人同殺，將義人與惡人一樣看待，這斷不是你所行的。審判全地的主，豈不行公義嗎。
That be far from thee to do after this manner, to slay the righteous with the wicked: and that the righteous should be as the wicked, that be far from thee: Shall not the Judge of all the earth do right?

18:26    耶和華說，我若在所多瑪城裡見有五十個義人，我就為他們的緣故饒恕那地方的眾人。
And the LORD said, If I find in Sodom fifty righteous within the city, then I will spare all the place for their sakes.

18:27    亞伯拉罕說，我雖然是灰塵，還敢對主說話。
And Abraham answered and said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the LORD, which am but dust and ashes:

18:28    假若這五十個義人短了五個，你就因為短了五個毀滅全城嗎。他說，我在那裡若見有四十五個，也不毀滅那城。
Peradventure there shall lack five of the fifty righteous: wilt thou destroy all the city for lack of five? And he said, If I find there forty and five, I will not destroy it.

18:29    亞伯拉罕又對他說，假若在那裡見有四十個怎嗎樣呢。他說，為這四十個的緣故，我也不作這事。
And he spake unto him yet again, and said, Peradventure there shall be forty found there. And he said, I will not do it for forty's sake.

18:30    亞伯拉罕說，求主不要動怒，容我說。假若在那裡見有三十個怎嗎樣呢。他說，我在那裡若見有三十個，我也不作這事。
And he said unto him, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak: Peradventure there shall thirty be found there. And he said, I will not do it, if I find thirty there.

18:31    亞伯拉罕說，我還敢對主說話，假若在那裡見有二十個怎嗎樣呢。他說，為這二十個的緣故，我也不毀滅那城。
And he said, Behold now, I have taken upon me to speak unto the LORD: Peradventure there shall be twenty found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for twenty's sake.

18:32    亞伯拉罕說，求主不要動怒，我再說這一次，假若在那裡見有十個呢。他說，為這十個的緣故，我也不毀滅那城。
And he said, Oh let not the LORD be angry, and I will speak yet but this once: Peradventure ten shall be found there. And he said, I will not destroy it for ten's sake.

18:33    耶和華與亞伯拉罕說完了話就走了。亞伯拉罕也回到自己的地方去了。
And the LORD went his way, as soon as he had left communing with Abraham: and Abraham returned unto his place.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第19 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


19:1    那兩個天使晚上到了所多瑪。羅得正坐在所多瑪城門口，看見他們，就起來迎接，臉伏於地下拜，
And there came two angels to Sodom at even; and Lot sat in the gate of Sodom: and Lot seeing them rose up to meet them; and he bowed himself with his face toward the ground;

19:2    說，我主阿，請你們到僕人家裡洗洗腳，住一夜，清早起來再走。他們說，不，我們要在街上過夜。
And he said, Behold now, my lords, turn in, I pray you, into your servant's house, and tarry all night, and wash your feet, and ye shall rise up early, and go on your ways. And they said, Nay; but we will abide in the street all night.

19:3    羅得切切地請他們，他們這才進去，到他屋裡。羅得為他們預備筵席，烤無酵餅，他們就吃了。
And he pressed upon them greatly; and they turned in unto him, and entered into his house; and he made them a feast, and did bake unleavened bread, and they did eat.

19:4    他們還沒有躺下，所多瑪城裡各處的人，連老帶少，都來圍住那房子，
But before they lay down, the men of the city, even the men of Sodom, compassed the house round, both old and young, all the people from every quarter:

19:5    呼叫羅得說，今日晚上到你這裡來的人在哪裡呢。把他們帶出來，任我們所為。
And they called unto Lot, and said unto him, Where are the men which came in to thee this night? bring them out unto us, that we may know them.

19:6    羅得出來，把門關上，到眾人那裡，
And Lot went out at the door unto them, and shut the door after him,

19:7    說，眾弟兄，請你們不要作這惡事。
And said, I pray you, brethren, do not so wickedly.

19:8    我有兩個女兒，還是處女，容我領出來，任憑你們的心願而行。只是這兩個人既然到我舍下，不要向他們作什麼。
Behold now, I have two daughters which have not known man; let me, I pray you, bring them out unto you, and do ye to them as is good in your eyes: only unto these men do nothing; for therefore came they under the shadow of my roof.

19:9    眾人說，退去吧。又說，這個人來寄居，還想要作官哪。現在我們要害你比害他們更甚。眾人就向前擁擠羅得，要攻破房門。
And they said, Stand back. And they said again, This one fellow came in to sojourn, and he will needs be a judge: now will we deal worse with thee, than with them. And they pressed sore upon the man, even Lot, and came near to break the door.

19:10    只是那二人伸出手來，將羅得拉進屋去，把門關上，
But the men put forth their hand, and pulled Lot into the house to them, and shut to the door.

19:11    並且使門外的人，無論老少，眼都昏迷。他們摸來摸去，總尋不著房門。
And they smote the men that were at the door of the house with blindness, both small and great: so that they wearied themselves to find the door.

19:12    二人對羅得說，你這裡還有什麼人嗎。無論是女婿是兒女，和這城中一切屬你的人，你都要將他們從這地方帶出去。
And the men said unto Lot, Hast thou here any besides? son in law, and thy sons, and thy daughters, and whatsoever thou hast in the city, bring them out of this place:

19:13    我們要毀滅這地方。因為城內罪惡的聲音在耶和華面前甚大，耶和華差我們來，要毀滅這地方。
For we will destroy this place, because the cry of them is waxen great before the face of the LORD; and the LORD hath sent us to destroy it.

19:14    羅得就出去，告訴娶了（或作將要娶）他女兒的女婿們說，你們起來離開這地方，因為耶和華要毀滅這城。他女婿們卻以為他說的是戲言。
And Lot went out, and spake unto his sons in law, which married his daughters, and said, Up, get you out of this place; for the LORD will destroy this city. But he seemed as one that mocked unto his sons in law.

19:15    天明瞭，天使催逼羅得說，起來，帶著你的妻子和你在這裡的兩個女兒出去，免得你因這城裡的罪惡同被剿滅。
And when the morning arose, then the angels hastened Lot, saying, Arise, take thy wife, and thy two daughters, which are here; lest thou be consumed in the iniquity of the city.

19:16    但羅得遲延不走。二人因為耶和華憐恤羅得，就拉著他的手和他妻子的手，並他兩個女兒的手，把他們領出來，安置在城外。
And while he lingered, the men laid hold upon his hand, and upon the hand of his wife, and upon the hand of his two daughters; the LORD being merciful unto him: and they brought him forth, and set him without the city.

19:17    領他們出來以後，就說，逃命吧。不可回頭看，也不可在平原站住。要往山上逃跑，免得你被剿滅。
And it came to pass, when they had brought them forth abroad, that he said, Escape for thy life; look not behind thee, neither stay thou in all the plain; escape to the mountain, lest thou be consumed.

19:18    羅得對他們說，我主阿，不要如此，
And Lot said unto them, Oh, not so, my LORD:

19:19    你僕人已經在你眼前蒙恩。你又向我顯出莫大的慈愛，救我的性命。我不能逃到山上去，恐怕這災禍臨到我，我便死了。
Behold now, thy servant hath found grace in thy sight, and thou hast magnified thy mercy, which thou hast shewed unto me in saving my life; and I cannot escape to the mountain, lest some evil take me, and I die:

19:20    看哪，這座城又小又近，容易逃到，這不是一個小的嗎。求你容我逃到那裡，我的性命就得存活。
Behold now, this city is near to flee unto, and it is a little one: Oh, let me escape thither, (is it not a little one?) and my soul shall live.

19:21    天使對他說，這事我也應允你。我不傾覆你所說的這城。
And he said unto him, See, I have accepted thee concerning this thing also, that I will not overthrow this city, for the which thou hast spoken.

19:22    你要速速地逃到那城。因為你還沒有到那裡，我不能作什麼。因此那城名叫瑣珥（瑣珥就是小的意思）。
Haste thee, escape thither; for I cannot do anything till thou be come thither. Therefore the name of the city was called Zoar.

19:23    羅得到了瑣珥，日頭已經出來了。
The sun was risen upon the earth when Lot entered into Zoar.

19:24    當時，耶和華將硫磺與火從天上耶和華那裡降與所多瑪和蛾摩拉，
Then the LORD rained upon Sodom and upon Gomorrah brimstone and fire from the LORD out of heaven;

19:25    把那些城和全平原，並城裡所有的居民，連地上生長的，都毀滅了。
And he overthrew those cities, and all the plain, and all the inhabitants of the cities, and that which grew upon the ground.

19:26    羅得的妻子在後邊回頭一看，就變成了一根鹽柱。
But his wife looked back from behind him, and she became a pillar of salt.

19:27    亞伯拉罕清早起來，到了他從前刪在耶和華面前的地方，
And Abraham gat up early in the morning to the place where he stood before the LORD:

19:28    向所多瑪和蛾摩拉與平原的全地觀看，不料，那地方煙氣上騰，如同燒窯一般。
And he looked toward Sodom and Gomorrah, and toward all the land of the plain, and beheld, and, lo, the smoke of the country went up as the smoke of a furnace.

19:29    當神毀滅平原諸城的時候，他記念亞伯拉罕，正在傾覆羅得所住之城的時候，就打發羅得從傾覆之中出來。
And it came to pass, when God destroyed the cities of the plain, that God remembered Abraham, and sent Lot out of the midst of the overthrow, when he overthrew the cities in the which Lot dwelt.

19:30    羅得因為怕住在瑣珥，就同他兩個女兒從瑣珥上去，住在山裡。他和兩個女兒住在一個洞裡。
And Lot went up out of Zoar, and dwelt in the mountain, and his two daughters with him; for he feared to dwell in Zoar: and he dwelt in a cave, he and his two daughters.

19:31    大女兒對小女兒說，我們的父親老了，地上又無人按著世上的常規進到我們這裡。
And the firstborn said unto the younger, Our father is old, and there is not a man in the earth to come in unto us after the manner of all the earth:

19:32    來，我們可以叫父親喝酒，與他同寢。這樣，我們好從他存留後裔。
Come, let us make our father drink wine, and we will lie with him, that we may preserve seed of our father.

19:33    於是，那夜她們叫父親喝酒，大女兒就進去和她父親同寢。她幾時躺下，幾時起來，父親都不知道。
And they made their father drink wine that night: and the firstborn went in, and lay with her father; and he perceived not when she lay down, nor when she arose.

19:34    第二天，大女兒對小女兒說，我昨夜與父親同寢。今夜我們再叫他喝酒，你可以進去與他同寢。這樣，我們好從父親存留後裔。
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the firstborn said unto the younger, Behold, I lay yesternight with my father: let us make him drink wine this night also; and go thou in, and lie with him, that we may preserve seed of our father.

19:35    於是，那夜她們又叫父親喝酒，小女兒起來與她父親同寢。她幾時躺下，幾時起來，父親都不知道。
And they made their father drink wine that night also: and the younger arose, and lay with him; and he perceived not when she lay down, nor when she arose.

19:36    這樣，羅得的兩個女兒都從她父親懷了孕。
Thus were both the daughters of Lot with child by their father.

19:37    大女兒生了兒子，給他起名叫摩押，就是現今摩押人的始祖。
And the first born bare a son, and called his name Moab: the same is the father of the Moabites unto this day.



19:38    小女兒也生了兒子，給他起名叫便亞米，就是現今亞捫人的始祖。
And the younger, she also bare a son, and called his name Benammi: the same is the father of the children of Ammon unto this day.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第20 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


20:1    亞伯拉罕從那裡向南地遷去，寄居在加低斯和書珥中間的基拉耳。
And Abraham journeyed from thence toward the south country, and dwelled between Kadesh and Shur, and sojourned in Gerar.

20:2    亞伯拉罕稱他的妻撒拉為妹子，基拉耳王亞比米勒差人把撒拉取了去。
And Abraham said of Sarah his wife, She is my sister: and Abimelech king of Gerar sent, and took Sarah.

20:3    但夜間神來在夢中對亞比米勒說，你是個死人哪，因為你取了那女人來。她原是別人的妻子。
But God came to Abimelech in a dream by night, and said to him, Behold, thou art but a dead man, for the woman which thou hast taken; for she is a man's wife.

20:4    亞比米勒卻還沒有親近撒拉。他說，主阿，連有義的國，你也要毀滅嗎。
But Abimelech had not come near her: and he said, LORD, wilt thou slay also a righteous nation?

20:5    那人豈不是自己對我說，她是我的妹子嗎。就是女人也自己說，他是我的哥哥。我作這事是心正手潔的。
Said he not unto me, She is my sister? and she, even she herself said, He is my brother: in the integrity of my heart and innocency of my hands have I done this.

20:6    神在夢中對他說，我知道你作這事是心中正直。我也攔阻了你，免得你得罪我，所以我不容你沾著她。
And God said unto him in a dream, Yea, I know that thou didst this in the integrity of thy heart; for I also withheld thee from sinning against me: therefore suffered I thee not to touch her.

20:7    現在你把這人的妻子歸還他。因為他是先知，他要為你禱告，使你存活。你若不歸還他，你當知道，你和你所有的人都必要死。
Now therefore restore the man his wife; for he is a prophet, and he shall pray for thee, and thou shalt live: and if thou restore her not, know thou that thou shalt surely die, thou, and all that are thine.

20:8    亞比米勒清早起來，召了眾臣僕來，將這些事都說給他們聽，他們都甚懼怕。
Therefore Abimelech rose early in the morning, and called all his servants, and told all these things in their ears: and the men were sore afraid.

20:9    亞比米勒召了亞伯拉罕來，對他說，你怎嗎向我這樣行呢。我在什麼事上得罪了你，你竟使我和我國裡的人陷在大罪裡。你向我行不當行的事了。
Then Abimelech called Abraham, and said unto him, What hast thou done unto us? and what have I offended thee, that thou hast brought on me and on my kingdom a great sin? thou hast done deeds unto me that ought not to be done.

20:10    亞比米勒又對亞伯拉罕說，你見了什麼才作這事呢。
And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What sawest thou, that thou hast done this thing?

20:11    亞伯拉罕說，我以為這地方的人總不懼怕神，必為我妻子的緣故殺我。
And Abraham said, Because I thought, Surely the fear of God is not in this place; and they will slay me for my wife's sake.

20:12    況且她也實在是我的妹子。她與我是同父異母，後來作了我的妻子。
And yet indeed she is my sister; she is the daughter of my father, but not the daughter of my mother; and she became my wife.

20:13    當神叫我離開父家，飄流在外的時候，我對她說，我們無論走到什麼地方，你可
And it came to pass, when God caused me to wander from my father's house, that I said unto her, This is thy kindness which thou shalt shew unto me; at every place whither we shall come, say of me, He is my brother.

20:14    亞比米勒把牛，羊，僕婢賜給亞伯拉罕，又把他的妻子撒拉歸還他。
And Abimelech took sheep, and oxen, and menservants, and womenservants, and gave them unto Abraham, and restored him Sarah his wife.

20:15    亞比米勒又說，看哪，我的地都在你面前，你可以隨意居住。
And Abimelech said, Behold, my land is before thee: dwell where it pleaseth thee.

20:16    又對撒拉說，我給你哥哥一千銀子，作為你在閤家人面前哨羞的（羞原文作眼），你就在眾人面前沒有不是了。
And unto Sarah he said, Behold, I have given thy brother a thousand pieces of silver: behold, he is to thee a covering of the eyes, unto all that are with thee, and with all other: thus she was reproved.

20:17    亞伯拉罕禱告神，神就醫好了亞比米勒和他的妻子，並他的眾女僕，她們便跑生育
So Abraham prayed unto God: and God healed Abimelech, and his wife, and his maidservants; and they bare children.

20:18    因耶和華為亞伯拉罕的妻子撒拉的緣故，已經使亞比米勒家中的婦人不能生育。
For the LORD had fast closed up all the wombs of the house of Abimelech, because of Sarah Abraham's wife.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第21 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


21:1    耶和華按著先前的話眷顧撒拉，便照他所說的給撒拉成就。
And the LORD visited Sarah as he had said, and the LORD did unto Sarah as he had spoken.

21:2    當亞伯拉罕年老的時候，撒拉懷了孕。到神所說的日期，就給亞伯拉罕生了一個兒子。
For Sarah conceived, and bare Abraham a son in his old age, at the set time of which God had spoken to him.

21:3    亞伯拉罕給撒拉所生的兒子起名叫以撒。
And Abraham called the name of his son that was born unto him, whom Sarah bare to him, Isaac.

21:4    以撒生下來第八日，亞伯拉罕照著神所吩咐的，給以撒行了割禮。
And Abraham circumcised his son Isaac being eight days old, as God had commanded him.

21:5    他兒子以撒生的時候，亞伯拉罕年一百歲。
And Abraham was an hundred years old, when his son Isaac was born unto him.

21:6    撒拉說，神使我喜笑，凡聽見的必與我一同喜笑。
And Sarah said, God hath made me to laugh, so that all that hear will laugh with me.

21:7    又說，誰能預先對亞伯拉罕說撒拉要乳養嬰孩呢，因為在他年老的時候，我給他生了一個兒子。
And she said, Who would have said unto Abraham, that Sarah should have given children suck? for I have born him a son in his old age.

21:8    孩子漸長，就斷了奶。以撒斷奶的日子，亞伯拉罕設擺豐盛的筵席。
And the child grew, and was weaned: and Abraham made a great feast the same day that Isaac was weaned.

21:9    當時，撒拉看見埃及人夏甲給亞伯拉罕所生的兒子戲笑，
And Sarah saw the son of Hagar the Egyptian, which she had born unto Abraham, mocking.

21:10    就對亞伯拉罕說，你把這使女和她兒子趕出去，因為這使女的兒子不可與我的兒子以撒一同承受產業。
Wherefore she said unto Abraham, Cast out this bondwoman and her son: for the son of this bondwoman shall not be heir with my son, even with Isaac.

21:11    亞伯拉罕因他兒子的緣故很憂愁。
And the thing was very grievous in Abraham's sight because of his son.

21:12    神對亞伯拉罕說，你不必為這童子和你的使女憂愁。凡撒拉對你說的話，你都該聽從。因為從以撒生的，才要稱為你的後裔。
And God said unto Abraham, Let it not be grievous in thy sight because of the lad, and because of thy bondwoman; in all that Sarah hath said unto thee, hearken unto her voice; for in Isaac shall thy seed be called.

21:13    至於使女的兒子，我也必使他的後裔成立一國，因為他是你所生的。
And also of the son of the bondwoman will I make a nation, because he is thy seed.

21:14    亞伯拉罕清早起來，拿餅和一皮袋水，給了夏甲，搭在她的肩上，又把孩子交給她打發她走。夏甲就走了，在別是巴的曠野走迷了路。
And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and took bread, and a bottle of water, and gave it unto Hagar, putting it on her shoulder, and the child, and sent her away: and she departed, and wandered in the wilderness of Beersheba.

21:15    皮袋的水用盡了，夏甲就把孩子撇在小樹底下，
And the water was spent in the bottle, and she cast the child under one of the shrubs.

21:16    自己走開約有一箭之遠，相對而坐，說，我不忍見孩子死，就相對而坐，放聲大哭。
And she went, and sat her down over against him a good way off, as it were a bow shot: for she said, Let me not see the death of the child. And she sat over against him, and lift up her voice, and wept.

21:17    神聽見童子的聲音。神的使者從天上呼叫夏甲說，夏甲，你為何這樣呢，不要害怕，神已經聽見童子的聲音了。
And God heard the voice of the lad; and the angel of God called to Hagar out of heaven, and said unto her, What aileth thee, Hagar? fear not; for God hath heard the voice of the lad where he is.

21:18    起來，把童子抱在懷中（懷原文作手），我必使他的後裔成為大國。
Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him in thine hand; for I will make him a great nation.

21:19    神使夏甲的眼睛明亮，她就看見一口水井，便去將皮袋盛滿了水，給童子喝。
And God opened her eyes, and she saw a well of water; and she went, and filled the bottle with water, and gave the lad drink.

21:20    神保佑童子，他就漸長，住在曠野，成了弓箭手。
And God was with the lad; and he grew, and dwelt in the wilderness, and became an archer.

21:21    他住在巴蘭的曠野。他母親從埃及地給他娶了一個妻子。
And he dwelt in the wilderness of Paran: and his mother took him a wife out of the land of Egypt.

21:22    當那時候，亞比米勒同他軍長非各對亞伯拉罕說，凡你所行的事都有神的保佑。
And it came to pass at that time, that Abimelech and Phichol the chief captain of his host spake unto Abraham, saying, God is with thee in all that thou doest:

21:23    我願你如今在這裡指著神對我起誓，不要欺負我與我的兒子，並我的子孫。我怎樣厚待了你，你也要照樣厚待我與你所寄居這地的民。
Now therefore swear unto me here by God that thou wilt not deal falsely with me, nor with my son, nor with my son's son: but according to the kindness that I have done unto thee, thou shalt do unto me, and to the land wherein thou hast sojourned.

21:24    亞伯拉罕說，我情願起誓。
And Abraham said, I will swear.

21:25    從前，亞比米勒的僕人霸佔了一口水井，亞伯拉罕為這事指責亞比米勒。
And Abraham reproved Abimelech because of a well of water, which Abimelech's servants had violently taken away.

21:26    亞比米勒說，誰作這事，我不知道，你也沒有告訴我，今日我才聽見了。
And Abimelech said, I wot not who hath done this thing: neither didst thou tell me, neither yet heard I of it, but to day.

21:27    亞伯拉罕把羊和牛給了亞比米勒，二人就彼此立約。
And Abraham took sheep and oxen, and gave them unto Abimelech; and both of them made a covenant.

21:28    亞伯拉罕把七隻母羊羔另放在一處。
And Abraham set seven ewe lambs of the flock by themselves.

21:29    亞比米勒問亞伯拉罕說，你把這七隻母羊羔另放在一處，是什麼意思呢。
And Abimelech said unto Abraham, What mean these seven ewe lambs which thou hast set by themselves?

21:30    他說，你要從我手裡受這七隻母羊羔，作我挖這口井的證據。
And he said, For these seven ewe lambs shalt thou take of my hand, that they may be a witness unto me, that I have digged this well.

21:31    所以他給那地方起名叫別是巴（就是盟誓的井），因為他們二人在那裡起了誓。
Wherefore he called that place Beersheba; because there they sware both of them.

21:32    他們在別是巴立了約，亞比米勒就同他軍長非各起身回非利士地去了。
Thus they made a covenant at Beersheba: then Abimelech rose up, and Phichol the chief captain of his host, and they returned into the land of the Philistines.

21:33    亞伯拉罕在別是巴栽上一棵垂絲柳樹，又在那裡求告耶和華永生神的名。
And Abraham planted a grove in Beersheba, and called there on the name of the LORD, the everlasting God.

21:34    亞伯拉罕在非利士人的地寄居了多日。
And Abraham sojourned in the Philistines' land many days.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第22 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


22:1    這些事以後，神要試驗亞伯拉罕，就呼叫他說，亞伯拉罕，他說，我在這裡。
And it came to pass after these things, that God did tempt Abraham, and said unto him, Abraham: and he said, Behold, here I am.

22:2    神說，你帶著你的兒子，就是你獨生的兒子，你所愛的以撒，往摩利亞地去，在我所要指示你的山上，把他獻為燔祭。
And he said, Take now thy son, thine only son Isaac, whom thou lovest, and get thee into the land of Moriah; and offer him there for a burnt offering upon one of the mountains which I will tell thee of.

22:3    亞伯拉罕清早起來，備上驢，帶著兩個僕人和他兒子以撒，也劈好了燔祭的柴，就起身往神所指示他的地方去了。
And Abraham rose up early in the morning, and saddled his ass, and took two of his young men with him, and Isaac his son, and clave the wood for the burnt offering, and rose up, and went unto the place of which God had told him.

22:4    到了第三日，亞伯拉罕舉目遠遠地看見那地方。
Then on the third day Abraham lifted up his eyes, and saw the place afar off.

22:5    亞伯拉罕對他的僕人說，你們和驢在此等候，我與童子往那裡去拜一拜，就回到你們這裡來。
And Abraham said unto his young men, Abide ye here with the ass; and I and the lad will go yonder and worship, and come again to you.

22:6    亞伯拉罕把燔祭的柴放在他兒子以撒身上，自己手裡拿著火與刀。於是二人同行。
And Abraham took the wood of the burnt offering, and laid it upon Isaac his son; and he took the fire in his hand, and a knife; and they went both of them together.

22:7    以撒對他父親亞伯拉罕說，父親哪，亞伯拉罕說，我兒，我在這裡。以撒說，請看，火與柴都有了，但燔祭的羊羔在哪裡呢。
And Isaac spake unto Abraham his father, and said, My father: and he said, Here am I, my son. And he said, Behold the fire and the wood: but where is the lamb for a burnt offering?

22:8    亞伯拉罕說，我兒，神必自己預備作燔祭的羊羔。於是二人同行。
And Abraham said, My son, God will provide himself a lamb for a burnt offering: so they went both of them together.

22:9    他們到了神所指示的地方，亞伯拉罕在那裡築壇，把柴擺好，捆綁他的兒子以撒，放在壇的柴上。
And they came to the place which God had told him of; and Abraham built an altar there, and laid the wood in order, and bound Isaac his son, and laid him on the altar upon the wood.

22:10    亞伯拉罕就伸手拿刀，要殺他的兒子。
And Abraham stretched forth his hand, and took the knife to slay his son.

22:11    耶和華的使者從天上呼叫他說，亞伯拉罕，亞伯拉罕，他說，我在這裡。
And the angel of the LORD called unto him out of heaven, and said, Abraham, Abraham: and he said, Here am I.

22:12    天使說，你不可在這童子身上下手。一點不可害他。現在我知道你是敬畏神的了。因為你沒有將你的兒子，就是你獨生的兒子，留下不給我。
And he said, Lay not thine hand upon the lad, neither do thou any thing unto him: for now I know that thou fearest God, seeing thou hast not withheld thy son, thine only son from me.

22:13    亞伯拉罕舉目觀看，不料，有一隻公羊，兩角扣在稠密的小樹中，亞伯拉罕就取了那隻公羊來，獻為燔祭，代替他的兒子。
And Abraham lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold behind him a ram caught in a thicket by his horns: and Abraham went and took the ram, and offered him up for a burnt offering in the stead of his son.

22:14    亞伯拉罕給那地方起名叫耶和華以勒（就是耶和華必預備），直到今日人還說，在耶和華的山上必有預備。
And Abraham called the name of that place Jehovahjireh: as it is said to this day, In the mount of the LORD it shall be seen.

22:15    耶和華的使者第二次從天上呼叫亞伯拉罕說，
And the angel of the LORD called unto Abraham out of heaven the second time,

22:16    耶和華說，你既行了這事，不留下你的兒子，就是你獨生的兒子，我便指著自己起誓說，
And said, By myself have I sworn, saith the LORD, for because thou hast done this thing, and hast not withheld thy son, thine only son:

22:17    論福，我必賜大福給你。論子孫，我必叫你的子孫多起來，如同天上的星，海邊的沙。你子孫必得著仇敵的城門，
That in blessing I will bless thee, and in multiplying I will multiply thy seed as the stars of the heaven, and as the sand which is upon the sea shore; and thy seed shall possess the gate of his enemies;

22:18    並且地上萬國都必因你的後裔得福，因為你聽從了我的話。
And in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed; because thou hast obeyed my voice.

22:19    於是亞伯拉罕回到他僕人那裡，他們一同起身往別是巴去，亞伯拉罕就住在別是巴。
So Abraham returned unto his young men, and they rose up and went together to Beersheba; and Abraham dwelt at Beersheba.

22:20    這事以後，有人告訴亞伯拉罕說，密迦給你兄弟拿鶴生了幾個兒子，
And it came to pass after these things, that it was told Abraham, saying, Behold, Milcah, she hath also born children unto thy brother Nahor;

22:21    長子是烏斯，他的兄弟是布斯和亞蘭的父親基母利，
Huz his firstborn, and Buz his brother, and Kemuel the father of Aram,

22:22    並基薛，哈瑣，必達，益拉，彼土利（彼土利生利百加）。
And Chesed, and Hazo, and Pildash, and Jidlaph, and Bethuel.

22:23    這八個人都是密迦給亞伯拉罕的兄弟拿鶴生的。
And Bethuel begat Rebekah: these eight Milcah did bear to Nahor, Abraham's brother.

22:24    拿鶴的妾名叫流瑪，生了提八，迦含，他轄，和瑪迦。
And his concubine, whose name was Reumah, she bare also Tebah, and Gaham, and Thahash, and Maachah.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第23 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


23:1    撒拉享壽一百二十七歲，這是撒拉一生的歲數。
And Sarah was an hundred and seven and twenty years old: these were the years of the life of Sarah.

23:2    撒拉死在迦南地的基列亞巴，就是希伯侖。亞伯拉罕為她哀慟哭號。
And Sarah died in Kirjatharba; the same is Hebron in the land of Canaan: and Abraham came to mourn for Sarah, and to weep for her.

23:3    後來亞伯拉罕從死人面前起來，對赫人說，
And Abraham stood up from before his dead, and spake unto the sons of Heth, saying,

23:4    我在你們中間是外人，是寄居的。求你們在這裡給我一塊地，我好埋葬我的死人，使她不在我眼前。
I am a stranger and a sojourner with you: give me a possession of a buryingplace with you, that I may bury my dead out of my sight.

23:5    赫人回答亞伯拉罕說，
And the children of Heth answered Abraham, saying unto him,

23:6    我主請聽。你在我們中間是一位尊大的王子，只管在我們最好的墳地裡埋葬你的死人。我們沒有一人不容你在他的墳地裡埋葬你的死人。
Hear us, my lord: thou art a mighty prince among us: in the choice of our sepulchres bury thy dead; none of us shall withhold from thee his sepulchre, but that thou mayest bury thy dead.

23:7    亞伯拉罕就起來，向那地的赫人下拜，
And Abraham stood up, and bowed himself to the people of the land, even to the children of Heth.

23:8    對他們說，你們若有意叫我埋葬我的死人，使她不在我眼前，就請聽我的話，為我求瑣轄的兒子以弗侖，
And he communed with them, saying, If it be your mind that I should bury my dead out of my sight; hear me, and intreat for me to Ephron the son of Zohar,

23:9    把田頭上那麥比拉洞給我。他可以按著足價賣給我，作我在你們中間的墳地。
That he may give me the cave of Machpelah, which he hath, which is in the end of his field; for as much money as it is worth he shall give it me for a possession of a buryingplace amongst you.

23:10    當時以弗侖正坐在赫人中間。於是，赫人以弗侖在城門出入的赫人面前對亞伯拉罕說，
And Ephron dwelt among the children of Heth: and Ephron the Hittite answered Abraham in the audience of the children of Heth, even of all that went in at the gate of his city, saying,

23:11    不然，我主請聽。我送給你這塊田，連田間的洞也送給你，在我同族的人面前都給你，可以埋葬你的死人。
Nay, my lord, hear me: the field give I thee, and the cave that is therein, I give it thee; in the presence of the sons of my people give I it thee: bury thy dead.

23:12    亞伯拉罕就在那地的人民面前下拜，
And Abraham bowed down himself before the people of the land.

23:13    在他們面前對以弗侖說，你若應允，請聽我的話。我要把田價給你，求你收下，我就在那裡埋葬我的死人。
And he spake unto Ephron in the audience of the people of the land, saying, But if thou wilt give it, I pray thee, hear me: I will give thee money for the field; take it of me, and I will bury my dead there.

23:14    以弗侖回答亞伯拉罕說，
And Ephron answered Abraham, saying unto him,

23:15    我主請聽。值四百舍客勒銀子的一塊田，在你我中間還算什麼呢，只管埋葬你的死
My lord, hearken unto me: the land is worth four hundred shekels of silver; what is that betwixt me and thee? bury therefore thy dead.

23:16    亞伯拉罕聽從了以弗侖，照著他在赫人面前所說的話，把買賣通用的銀子平了四百舍客勒給以弗侖。
And Abraham hearkened unto Ephron; and Abraham weighed to Ephron the silver, which he had named in the audience of the sons of Heth, four hundred shekels of silver, current money with the merchant.

23:17    於是，麥比拉，幔利前，以弗侖的那塊田和其中的洞，並田間四圍的樹木，
And the field of Ephron, which was in Machpelah, which was before Mamre, the field, and the cave which was therein, and all the trees that were in the field, that were in all the borders round about, were made sure

23:18    都定準歸與亞伯拉罕，乃是他在赫人面前並城門出入的人面前買妥的。
Unto Abraham for a possession in the presence of the children of Heth, before all that went in at the gate of his city.

23:19    此後，亞伯拉罕把他妻子撒拉埋葬在迦南地幔利前的麥比拉田間的洞裡。幔利就是希伯侖。
And after this, Abraham buried Sarah his wife in the cave of the field of Machpelah before Mamre: the same is Hebron in the land of Canaan.

23:20    從此，那塊田和田間的洞就藉著赫人定準歸與亞伯拉罕作墳地。
And the field, and the cave that is therein, were made sure unto Abraham for a possession of a buryingplace by the sons of Heth.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第24 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


24:1    亞伯拉罕年紀老邁，向來在一切事上耶和華都賜福給他。
And Abraham was old, and well stricken in age: and the LORD had blessed Abraham in all things.

24:2    亞伯拉罕對管理他全業最老的僕人說，請你把手放在我大腿底下。
And Abraham said unto his eldest servant of his house, that ruled over all that he had, Put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh:

24:3    我要叫你指著耶和華天地的主起誓，不要為我兒子娶這迦南地中的女子為妻。
And I will make thee swear by the LORD, the God of heaven, and the God of the earth, that thou shalt not take a wife unto my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, among whom I dwell:

24:4    你要往我本地本族去，為我的兒子以撒娶一個妻子。
But thou shalt go unto my country, and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son Isaac.

24:5    僕人對他說，倘若女子不肯跟我到這地方來，我必須將你的兒子帶回你原出之地嗎。
And the servant said unto him, Peradventure the woman will not be willing to follow me unto this land: must I needs bring thy son again unto the land from whence thou camest?

24:6    亞伯拉罕對他說，你要謹慎，不要帶我的兒子回那裡去。
And Abraham said unto him, Beware thou that thou bring not my son thither again.

24:7    耶和華天上的主曾帶領我離開父家和本族的地，對我說話，向我起誓說，我要將這地賜給你的後裔。他必差遣使者在你面前，你就可以從那裡為我兒子娶一個妻子。
The LORD God of heaven, which took me from my father's house, and from the land of my kindred, and which spake unto me, and that sware unto me, saying, Unto thy seed will I give this land; he shall send his angel before thee, and thou shalt take a wife unto my son from thence.

24:8    倘若女子不肯跟你來，我使你起的誓就與你無干了，只是不可帶我的兒子回那裡去。
And if the woman will not be willing to follow thee, then thou shalt be clear from this my oath: only bring not my son thither again.

24:9    僕人就把手放在他主人亞伯拉罕的大腿底下，為這事向他起誓。
And the servant put his hand under the thigh of Abraham his master, and sware to him concerning that matter.

24:10    那僕人從他主人的駱駝裡取了十匹駱駝，並帶些他主人各樣的財物，起身往美索不達米亞去，到了拿鶴的城。
And the servant took ten camels of the camels of his master, and departed; for all the goods of his master were in his hand: and he arose, and went to Mesopotamia, unto the city of Nahor.

24:11    天將晚，眾女子出來打水的時候，他便叫駱駝跪在城外的水井那裡。
And he made his camels to kneel down without the city by a well of water at the time of the evening, even the time that women go out to draw water.

24:12    他說，耶和華我主人亞伯拉罕的神阿，求你施恩給我主人亞伯拉罕，使我今日遇見好機會。
And he said, O LORD God of my master Abraham, I pray thee, send me good speed this day, and shew kindness unto my master Abraham.

24:13    我現今站在井旁，城內居民的女子們正出來打水。
Behold, I stand here by the well of water; and the daughters of the men of the city come out to draw water:

24:14    我向哪一個女子說，請你拿下水瓶來，給我水喝，她若說，請喝，我也給你的駱駝喝，願那女子就作你所預定給你僕人以撒的妻。這樣，我便知道你施恩給我主人了。
And let it come to pass, that the damsel to whom I shall say, Let down thy pitcher, I pray thee, that I may drink; and she shall say, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: let the same be she that thou hast appointed for thy servant Isaac; and thereby shall I know that thou hast shewed kindness unto my master.

24:15    話還沒有說完，不料，利百加肩頭上扛著水瓶出來。利百加是彼土利所生的。彼土利是亞伯拉罕兄弟拿鶴妻子密迦的兒子。
And it came to pass, before he had done speaking, that, behold, Rebekah came out, who was born to Bethuel, son of Milcah, the wife of Nahor, Abraham's brother, with her pitcher upon her shoulder.

24:16    那女子容貌極其俊美，還是處女，也未曾有人親近她。她下到井旁，打滿了瓶，又上來。
And the damsel was very fair to look upon, a virgin, neither had any man known her: and she went down to the well, and filled her pitcher, and came up.

24:17    僕人跑上前去迎著她，說，求你將瓶裡的水給我一點喝。
And the servant ran to meet her, and said, Let me, I pray thee, drink a little water of thy pitcher.

24:18    女子說，我主請喝，就急忙拿下瓶來，託在手上給他喝。
And she said, Drink, my lord: and she hasted, and let down her pitcher upon her hand, and gave him drink.

24:19    女子給他喝了，就說，我再為你的駱駝打水，叫駱駝也喝足。
And when she had done giving him drink, she said, I will draw water for thy camels also, until they have done drinking.

24:20    她就急忙把瓶裡的水倒在槽裡，又跑到井旁打水，就為所有的駱駝打上水來。
And she hasted, and emptied her pitcher into the trough, and ran again unto the well to draw water, and drew for all his camels.

24:21    那人定睛看她，一句話也不說，要曉得耶和華賜他通達的道路沒有。
And the man wondering at her held his peace, to wit whether the LORD had made his journey prosperous or not.

24:22    駱駝喝足了，那人就拿一個金環，重半舍客勒，兩個金鐲，重十舍客勒，給了那女子，
And it came to pass, as the camels had done drinking, that the man took a golden earring of half a shekel weight, and two bracelets for her hands of ten shekels weight of gold;

24:23    說，請告訴我，你是誰的女兒，你父親家裡有我們住宿的地方沒有。
And said, Whose daughter art thou? tell me, I pray thee: is there room in thy father's house for us to lodge in?

24:24    女子說，我是密迦與拿鶴之子彼土利的女兒。
And she said unto him, I am the daughter of Bethuel the son of Milcah, which she bare unto Nahor.

24:25    又說，我們家裡足有糧草，也有住宿的地方。
She said moreover unto him, We have both straw and provender enough, and room to lodge in.

24:26    那人就低頭向耶和華下拜，
And the man bowed down his head, and worshipped the LORD.

24:27    說，耶和華我主人亞伯拉罕的神是應當稱頌的，因他不斷地以慈愛誠實待我主人。至於我，耶和華在路上引領我，直走到我主人的兄弟家裡。
And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of my master Abraham, who hath not left destitute my master of his mercy and his truth: I being in the way, the LORD led me to the house of my master's brethren.

24:28    女子跑回去，照著這些話告訴她母親和她家裡的人。
And the damsel ran, and told them of her mother's house these things.

24:29    *
And Rebekah had a brother, and his name was Laban: and Laban ran out unto the man, unto the well.

24:30    利百加有一個哥哥，名叫拉班，看見金環，又看見金鐲在他妹子的手上，並聽見他妹子利百加的話，說那人對我如此如此說。拉班就跑出來往井旁去，到那人跟前，見他仍站在駱駝旁邊的井旁那裡。
And it came to pass, when he saw the earring and bracelets upon his sister's hands, and when he heard the words of Rebekah his sister, saying, Thus spake the man unto me; that he came unto the man; and, behold, he stood by the camels at the well.

24:31    便對他說，你這蒙耶和華賜福的，請進來，為什麼站在外邊，我已經收拾了房屋，也為駱駝預備了地方。
And he said, Come in, thou blessed of the LORD; wherefore standest thou without? for I have prepared the house, and room for the camels.

24:32    那人就進了拉班的家。拉班卸了駱駝，用草料喂上，拿水給那人和跟隨的人洗腳，
And the man came into the house: and he ungirded his camels, and gave straw and provender for the camels, and water to wash his feet, and the men's feet that were with him.

24:33    把飯擺在他面前，叫他吃，他卻說，我不吃，等我說明白我的事情再吃。拉班說，請說。
And there was set meat before him to eat: but he said, I will not eat, until I have told mine errand. And he said, Speak on.

24:34    他說，我是亞伯拉罕的僕人。
And he said, I am Abraham's servant.

24:35    耶和華大大地賜福給我主人，使他昌大，又賜給他羊群，牛群，金銀，僕婢，駱駝，和驢。
And the LORD hath blessed my master greatly; and he is become great: and he hath given him flocks, and herds, and silver, and gold, and menservants, and maidservants, and camels, and asses.

24:36    我主人的妻子撒拉年老的時候給我主人生了一個兒子。我主人也將一切所有的都給了這個兒子。
And Sarah my master's wife bare a son to my master when she was old: and unto him hath he given all that he hath.

24:37    我主人叫我起誓說，你不要為我兒子娶迦南地的女子為妻。
And my master made me swear, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife to my son of the daughters of the Canaanites, in whose land I dwell:

24:38    你要往我父家，我本族那裡去，為我的兒子娶一個妻子。
But thou shalt go unto my father's house, and to my kindred, and take a wife unto my son.

24:39    我對我主人說，恐怕女子不肯跟我來。
And I said unto my master, Peradventure the woman will not follow me.

24:40    他就說，我所事奉的耶和華必要差遣他的使者與你同去，叫你的道路通達，你就得以在我父家，我本族那裡，給我的兒子娶一個妻子。
And he said unto me, The LORD, before whom I walk, will send his angel with thee, and prosper thy way; and thou shalt take a wife for my son of my kindred, and of my father's house:

24:41    只要你到了我本族那裡，我使你起的誓就與你無干。他們若不把女子交給你，我使你起的誓也與你無干。
Then shalt thou be clear from this my oath, when thou comest to my kindred; and if they give not thee one, thou shalt be clear from my oath.

24:42    我今日到了井旁，便說，耶和華我主人亞伯拉罕的神阿，願你叫我所行的道路通達。
And I came this day unto the well, and said, O LORD God of my master Abraham, if now thou do prosper my way which I go:

24:43    我如今站在井旁，對哪一個出來打水的女子說，請你把你瓶裡的水給我一點喝。
Behold, I stand by the well of water; and it shall come to pass, that when the virgin cometh forth to draw water, and I say to her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water of thy pitcher to drink;

24:44    她若說，你只管喝，我也為你的駱駝打水。願那女子就作耶和華給我主人兒子所預定的妻。
And she say to me, Both drink thou, and I will also draw for thy camels: let the same be the woman whom the LORD hath appointed out for my master's son.

24:45    我心裡的話還沒有說完，利百加就出來，肩頭上扛著水瓶，下到井旁打水。我便對她說，請你給我水喝。
And before I had done speaking in mine heart, behold, Rebekah came forth with her pitcher on her shoulder; and she went down unto the well, and drew water: and I said unto her, Let me drink, I pray thee.

24:46    她就急忙從肩頭上拿下瓶來，說，請喝，我也給你的駱駝喝。我便喝了。她又給我的駱駝喝了。
And she made haste, and let down her pitcher from her shoulder, and said, Drink, and I will give thy camels drink also: so I drank, and she made the camels drink also.

24:47    我問她說，你是誰的女兒，她說，我是密迦與拿鶴之子彼土利的女兒。我就把環子戴在她鼻子上，把鐲子戴在她兩手上。
And I asked her, and said, Whose daughter art thou? And she said, The daughter of Bethuel, Nahor's son, whom Milcah bare unto him: and I put the earring upon her face, and the bracelets upon her hands.

24:48    隨後我低頭向耶和華下拜，稱頌耶和華我主人亞伯拉罕的神。因為他引導我走合式的道路，使我得著我主人兄弟的孫女，給我主人的兒子為妻。
And I bowed down my head, and worshipped the LORD, and blessed the LORD God of my master Abraham, which had led me in the right way to take my master's brother's daughter unto his son.

24:49    現在你們若願以慈愛誠實待我主人，就告訴我。若不然，也告訴我，使我可以或向左，或向右。
And now if ye will deal kindly and truly with my master, tell me: and if not, tell me; that I may turn to the right hand, or to the left.

24:50    拉班和彼土利回答說，這事乃出於耶和華，我們不能向你說好說歹。
Then Laban and Bethuel answered and said, The thing proceedeth from the LORD: we cannot speak unto thee bad or good.

24:51    看哪，利百加在你面前，可以將她帶去，照著耶和華所說的，給你主人的兒子為妻。
Behold, Rebekah is before thee, take her, and go, and let her be thy master's son's wife, as the LORD hath spoken.

24:52    亞伯拉罕的僕人聽見他們這話，就向耶和華俯伏在地。
And it came to pass, that, when Abraham's servant heard their words, he worshipped the LORD, bowing himself to the earth.

24:53    當下僕人拿出金器，銀器，和衣服送給利百加，又將寶物送給她哥哥和她母親。
And the servant brought forth jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment, and gave them to Rebekah: he gave also to her brother and to her mother precious things.

24:54    僕人和跟從他的人吃了喝了，住了一夜。早晨起來，僕人就說，請打發我回我主人那裡去吧。
And they did eat and drink, he and the men that were with him, and tarried all night; and they rose up in the morning, and he said, Send me away unto my master.

24:55    利百加的哥哥和她母親說，讓女子同我們再住幾天，至少十天，然後她可以去。
And her brother and her mother said, Let the damsel abide with us a few days, at the least ten; after that she shall go.

24:56    僕人說，耶和華既賜給我通達的道路，你們不要耽誤我，請打發我走，回我主人那裡去吧。
And he said unto them, Hinder me not, seeing the LORD hath prospered my way; send me away that I may go to my master.

24:57    他們說，我們把女子叫來問問她。
And they said, We will call the damsel, and enquire at her mouth.

24:58    就叫了利百加來，問她說，你和這人同去嗎。利百加說，我去。
And they called Rebekah, and said unto her, Wilt thou go with this man? And she said, I will go.

24:59    於是他們打發妹子利百加和她的乳母，同亞伯拉罕的僕人，並跟從僕人的，都走了。
And they sent away Rebekah their sister, and her nurse, and Abraham's servant, and his men.

24:60    他們就給利百加祝福說，我們的妹子阿，願你作千萬人的母。願你的後裔得著仇敵的城門。
And they blessed Rebekah, and said unto her, Thou art our sister, be thou the mother of thousands of millions, and let thy seed possess the gate of those which hate them.

24:61    利百加和她的使女們起來，騎上駱駝，跟著那僕人，僕人就帶著利百加走了。
And Rebekah arose, and her damsels, and they rode upon the camels, and followed the man: and the servant took Rebekah, and went his way.

24:62    那時，以撒住在南地，剛從庇耳拉海萊回來。
And Isaac came from the way of the well Lahairoi; for he dwelt in the south country.

24:63    天將晚，以撒出來在田間默想，舉目一看，見來了些駱駝。
And Isaac went out to meditate in the field at the eventide: and he lifted up his eyes, and saw, and, behold, the camels were coming.

24:64    利百加舉目看見以撒，就急鉛下了駱駝，
And Rebekah lifted up her eyes, and when she saw Isaac, she lighted off the camel.

24:65    問那僕人說，這田間走來迎接我們的是誰。僕人說，是我的主人。利百加就拿帕子蒙上臉。
For she had said unto the servant, What man is this that walketh in the field to meet us? And the servant had said, It is my master: therefore she took a vail, and covered herself.

24:66    僕人就將所辦的一切事都告訴以撒。
And the servant told Isaac all things that he had done.

24:67    以撒便領利百加進了他母親撒拉的帳棚，娶了她為妻，並且愛她。以撒自從他母親不在了，這才得了安慰。
And Isaac brought her into his mother Sarah's tent, and took Rebekah, and she became his wife; and he loved her: and Isaac was comforted after his mother's death.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第25 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


25:1    亞伯拉罕又娶了一妻，名叫基土拉。
Then again Abraham took a wife, and her name was Keturah.

25:2    基土拉給他生了心蘭，約珊，米但，米甸，伊施巴，和書亞。
And she bare him Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah.

25:3    約珊生了示巴和底但。底但的子孫是亞書利族，利都是族，和利烏米族。
And Jokshan begat Sheba, and Dedan. And the sons of Dedan were Asshurim, and Letushim, and Leummim.

25:4    米甸的兒子是以法，以弗，哈諾，亞比大，和以勒大。這都是基土拉的子孫。
And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Hanoch, and Abidah, and Eldaah. All these were the children of Keturah.

25:5    亞伯拉罕將一切所有的都給了以撒。
And Abraham gave all that he had unto Isaac.

25:6    亞伯拉罕把財物分給他庶出的眾子，趁著自己還在世的時候打發他們離開他的兒子以撒，往東方去。
But unto the sons of the concubines, which Abraham had, Abraham gave gifts, and sent them away from Isaac his son, while he yet lived, eastward, unto the east country.

25:7    亞伯拉罕一生的年日是一百七十五歲。
And these are the days of the years of Abraham's life which he lived, an hundred threescore and fifteen years.

25:8    亞伯拉罕壽高年邁，氣絕而死，歸到他列祖（原文作本民）那裡。
Then Abraham gave up the ghost, and died in a good old age, an old man, and full of years; and was gathered to his people.

25:9    他兩個兒子以撒，以實瑪利把他埋葬在麥比拉洞裡。這洞在幔利前，赫人瑣轄的兒子以弗侖的田中，
And his sons Isaac and Ishmael buried him in the cave of Machpelah, in the field of Ephron the son of Zohar the Hittite, which is before Mamre;

25:10    就是亞伯拉罕向赫人買的那塊田。亞伯拉罕和他妻子撒拉都葬在那裡。
The field which Abraham purchased of the sons of Heth: there was Abraham buried, and Sarah his wife.

25:11    亞伯拉罕死了以後，神賜福給他的兒子以撒。以撒靠近庇耳拉海萊居住。
And it came to pass after the death of Abraham, that God blessed his son Isaac; and Isaac dwelt by the well Lahairoi.

25:12    撒拉的使女埃及人夏甲給亞伯拉罕所生的兒子是以實瑪利。
Now these are the generations of Ishmael, Abraham's son, whom Hagar the Egyptian, Sarah's handmaid, bare unto Abraham:

25:13    以實瑪利兒子們的名字，按著他們的家譜記在下面。以實瑪利的長子是尼拜約，又有基達，亞德別，米比衫，
And these are the names of the sons of Ishmael, by their names, according to their generations: the firstborn of Ishmael, Nebajoth; and Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,

25:14    米施瑪，度瑪，瑪撒，
And Mishma, and Dumah, and Massa,

25:15    哈大，提瑪，伊突，拿非施，基底瑪。
Hadar, and Tema, Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah:

25:16    這是以實瑪利眾子的名字，照著他們的村莊，營寨，作了十二族的族長。
These are the sons of Ishmael, and these are their names, by their towns, and by their castles; twelve princes according to their nations.

25:17    以實瑪利享壽一百三十七歲，氣絕而死，歸到他列祖（原文作本民）那裡。
And these are the years of the life of Ishmael, an hundred and thirty and seven years: and he gave up the ghost and died; and was gathered unto his people.

25:18    他子孫的住處在他眾弟兄東邊，從哈腓拉直到埃及前的書珥，正在亞述的道上。
And they dwelt from Havilah unto Shur, that is before Egypt, as thou goest toward Assyria: and he died in the presence of all his brethren.

25:19    亞伯拉罕的兒子以撒的後代記在下面。亞伯拉罕生以撒。
And these are the generations of Isaac, Abraham's son: Abraham begat Isaac:

25:20    以撒娶利百加為妻的時候正四十歲。利百加是巴旦亞蘭地的亞蘭人彼土利的女兒，是亞蘭人拉班的妹子。
And Isaac was forty years old when he took Rebekah to wife, the daughter of Bethuel the Syrian of Padanaram, the sister to Laban the Syrian.



25:21    以撒因他妻子不生育，就為她祈求耶和華。耶和華應允他的祈求，他的妻子利百加就懷了孕。
And Isaac intreated the LORD for his wife, because she was barren: and the LORD was intreated of him, and Rebekah his wife conceived.

25:22    孩子們在她腹中彼此相爭，她就說，若是這樣，我為什麼活著呢（或作我為什麼如此呢）。她就去求問耶和華。
And the children struggled together within her; and she said, If it be so, why am I thus? And she went to enquire of the LORD.

25:23    耶和華對她說，兩國在你腹內。兩族要從你身上出來。這族必強於那族。將來大的要服事小的。
And the LORD said unto her, Two nations are in thy womb, and two manner of people shall be separated from thy bowels; and the one people shall be stronger than the other people; and the elder shall serve the younger.

25:24    生產的日子到了，腹中果然是雙子。
And when her days to be delivered were fulfilled, behold, there were twins in her womb.

25:25    先產的身體發紅，渾身有毛，如同皮衣，他們就給他起名叫以掃（以掃就是有毛的意思）。
And the first came out red, all over like an hairy garment; and they called his name Esau.

25:26    隨後又生了以掃的兄弟，手抓住以掃的腳跟，因此給他起名叫雅各（雅各就是抓住的意思）。利百加生下兩個兒子的時候，以撒年正六十歲。
And after that came his brother out, and his hand took hold on Esau's heel; and his name was called Jacob: and Isaac was threescore years old when she bare them.

25:27    兩個孩子漸漸長大，以掃善於打獵，常在田野。雅各為人安靜，常住在帳棚裡。
And the boys grew: and Esau was a cunning hunter, a man of the field; and Jacob was a plain man, dwelling in tents.

25:28    以撒愛以掃，因為常吃他的野味。利百加卻愛雅各。
And Isaac loved Esau, because he did eat of his venison: but Rebekah loved Jacob.

25:29    有一天，雅各熬湯，以掃從田野回來累昏了。
And Jacob sod pottage: and Esau came from the field, and he was faint:

25:30    以掃對雅各說，我累昏了，求你把這紅湯給我喝。因此以掃又叫以東（以東就是紅的意思）。
And Esau said to Jacob, Feed me, I pray thee, with that same red pottage; for I am faint: therefore was his name called Edom.

25:31    雅各說，你今日把長子的名分賣給我吧。
And Jacob said, Sell me this day thy birthright.

25:32    以掃說，我將要死，這長子的名分於我有什麼益處呢。
And Esau said, Behold, I am at the point to die: and what profit shall this birthright do to me?

25:33    雅各說，你今日對我起誓吧。以掃就對他起了誓，把長子的名分賣給雅各。
And Jacob said, Swear to me this day; and he sware unto him: and he sold his birthright unto Jacob.

25:34    於是雅各將餅和紅豆湯給了以掃，以掃吃了喝了，便起來走了。這就是以掃輕看了他長子的名分。
Then Jacob gave Esau bread and pottage of lentiles; and he did eat and drink, and rose up, and went his way: thus Esau despised his birthright.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第26 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


26:1    在亞伯拉罕的日子，那地有一次饑荒。這時又有饑荒，以撒就往基拉耳去，到非利士人的王亞比米勒那裡。
And there was a famine in the land, beside the first famine that was in the days of Abraham. And Isaac went unto Abimelech king of the Philistines unto Gerar.

26:2    耶和華向以撒顯現，說，你不要下埃及去，要住在我所指示你的地。
And the LORD appeared unto him, and said, Go not down into Egypt; dwell in the land which I shall tell thee of:

26:3    你寄居在這地，我必與你同在，賜福給你，因為我要將這些地都賜給你和你的後裔。我必堅定我向你父亞伯拉罕所起的誓。
Sojourn in this land, and I will be with thee, and will bless thee; for unto thee, and unto thy seed, I will give all these countries, and I will perform the oath which I sware unto Abraham thy father;

26:4    我要加增你的後裔，像天上的星那樣多，又要將這些地都賜給你的後裔。並且地上萬國必因你的後裔得福
And I will make thy seed to multiply as the stars of heaven, and will give unto thy seed all these countries; and in thy seed shall all the nations of the earth be blessed;

26:5    都因亞伯拉罕聽從我的話，遵守我的吩咐和我的命令，律例，法度。
Because that Abraham obeyed my voice, and kept my charge, my commandments, my statutes, and my laws.

26:6    以撒就住在基拉耳。
And Isaac dwelt in Gerar:

26:7    那地方的人問到他的妻子，他便說，那是我的妹子。原來他怕說，是我的妻子。他心裡想，恐怕這地方的人為利百加的緣故殺我，因為她容貌俊美。
And the men of the place asked him of his wife; and he said, She is my sister: for he feared to say, She is my wife; lest, said he, the men of the place should kill me for Rebekah; because she was fair to look upon.

26:8    他在那裡住了許久。有一天，非利士人的王亞比米勒從窗戶裡往外觀看，見以撒和他的妻子利百加戲玩。
And it came to pass, when he had been there a long time, that Abimelech king of the Philistines looked out at a window, and saw, and, behold, Isaac was sporting with Rebekah his wife.

26:9    亞比米勒召了以撒來，對他說，她實在是你的妻子，你怎嗎說她是你的妹子。以撒說，我心裡想，恐怕我因她而死。
And Abimelech called Isaac, and said, Behold, of a surety she is thy wife: and how saidst thou, She is my sister? And Isaac said unto him, Because I said, Lest I die for her.

26:10    亞比米勒說，你向我們作的是什麼事呢。民中險些有人和你的妻同寢，把我們陷在罪裡。
And Abimelech said, What is this thou hast done unto us? one of the people might lightly have lien with thy wife, and thou shouldest have brought guiltiness upon us.

26:11    於是亞比米勒曉諭眾民說，凡沾著這個人，或是他妻子的，定要把他治死。
And Abimelech charged all his people, saying, He that toucheth this man or his wife shall surely be put to death.

26:12    以撒在那地耕種，那一年有百倍的收成。耶和華賜福給他，
Then Isaac sowed in that land, and received in the same year an hundredfold: and the LORD blessed him.

26:13    他就昌大，日增月盛，成了大富戶。
And the man waxed great, and went forward, and grew until he became very great:

26:14    他有羊群牛群，又有許多僕人，非利士人就嫉妒他。
For he had possession of flocks, and possession of herds, and great store of servants: and the Philistines envied him.

26:15    當他父親亞伯拉罕在世的日子，他父親的僕人所挖的井，非利士人全都塞住，填滿了土。
For all the wells which his father's servants had digged in the days of Abraham his father, the Philistines had stopped them, and filled them with earth.

26:16    亞比米勒對以撒說，你離開我們去吧。因為你比我們強盛得多。
And Abimelech said unto Isaac, Go from us; for thou art much mightier than we.

26:17    以撒就離開那裡，在基拉耳谷支搭帳棚，住在那裡。
And Isaac departed thence, and pitched his tent in the valley of Gerar, and dwelt there.

26:18    當他父親亞伯拉罕在世之日所挖的水井因非利士人在亞伯拉罕死後塞住了，以撒就重新挖出來，仍照他父親所叫的叫那些井的名字。
And Isaac digged again the wells of water, which they had digged in the days of Abraham his father; for the Philistines had stopped them after the death of Abraham: and he called their names after the names by which his father had called them.

26:19    以撒的僕人在谷中挖井，便得了一口活水井。
And Isaac's servants digged in the valley, and found there a well of springing water.

26:20    基拉耳的牧人與以撒的牧人爭競，說，這水是我們的。以撒就給那井起名叫埃色（埃色就是相爭的意思），因為他們和他相爭。
And the herdmen of Gerar did strive with Isaac's herdmen, saying, The water is ours: and he called the name of the well Esek; because they strove with him.

26:21    以撒的僕人又挖了一口井，他們又為這井爭競，因此以撒給這井起名叫西提拿（西提拿就是為敵的意思）。
And they digged another well, and strove for that also: and he called the name of it Sitnah.

26:22    以撒離開那裡，又挖了一口井，他們不為這井爭競了，他就給那井起名叫利河伯（就是寬闊的意思）。他說，耶和華現在給我們寬闊之地，我們必在這地昌盛。
And he removed from thence, and digged another well; and for that they strove not: and he called the name of it Rehoboth; and he said, For now the LORD hath made room for us, and we shall be fruitful in the land.

26:23    以撒從那裡上別是巴去。
And he went up from thence to Beersheba.

26:24    當夜耶和華向他顯現，說，我是你父親亞伯拉罕的神，不要懼怕，因為我與你同在，要賜福給你，並要為我僕人亞伯拉罕的緣故，使你的後裔繁多。
And the LORD appeared unto him the same night, and said, I am the God of Abraham thy father: fear not, for I am with thee, and will bless thee, and multiply thy seed for my servant Abraham's sake.

26:25    以撒就在那裡築了一座壇，求告耶和華的名，並且支搭帳棚。他的僕人便在那裡挖了一口井。
And he builded an altar there, and called upon the name of the LORD, and pitched his tent there: and there Isaac's servants digged a well.

26:26    亞比米勒，同他的朋友亞戶撒和他的軍長非各，從基拉耳來見以撒。
Then Abimelech went to him from Gerar, and Ahuzzath one of his friends, and Phichol the chief captain of his army.

26:27    以撒對他們說，你們既然恨我，打發我走了，為什麼到我這裡來呢。
And Isaac said unto them, Wherefore come ye to me, seeing ye hate me, and have sent me away from you?



26:28    他們說，我們明明地看見耶和華與你同在，便說，不如我們兩下彼此起誓，彼此立約，
And they said, We saw certainly that the LORD was with thee: and we said, Let there be now an oath betwixt us, even betwixt us and thee, and let us make a covenant with thee;

26:29    使你不害我們，正如我們未曾害你，一味地厚待你，並且打發你平平安安地走。你是蒙耶和華賜福的了。
That thou wilt do us no hurt, as we have not touched thee, and as we have done unto thee nothing but good, and have sent thee away in peace: thou art now the blessed of the LORD.

26:30    以撒就為他們設擺筵席，他們便吃了喝了。
And he made them a feast, and they did eat and drink.

26:31    他們清早起來彼此起誓。以撒打發他們走，他們就平平安安地離開他走了。
And they rose up betimes in the morning, and sware one to another: and Isaac sent them away, and they departed from him in peace.

26:32    那一天，以撒的僕人來，將挖井的事告訴他說，我們得了水了。
And it came to pass the same day, that Isaac's servants came, and told him concerning the well which they had digged, and said unto him, We have found water.

26:33    他就給那井起名叫示巴。因此那城叫作別是巴，直到今日。
And he called it Shebah: therefore the name of the city is Beersheba unto this day.

26:34    以掃四十歲的時候娶了赫人比利的女兒猶滴，與赫人以倫的女兒巴實抹為妻。
And Esau was forty years old when he took to wife Judith the daughter of Beeri the Hittite, and Bashemath the daughter of Elon the Hittite:

26:35    她們常使以撒和利百加心裡愁煩。
Which were a grief of mind unto Isaac and to Rebekah.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第27 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


27:1    以撒年老，眼睛昏花，不能看見，就叫了他大兒子以掃來，說，我兒，以掃說，我在這裡。
And it came to pass, that when Isaac was old, and his eyes were dim, so that he could not see, he called Esau his eldest son, and said unto him, My son: and he said unto him, Behold, here am I.

27:2    他說，我如今老了，不知道哪一天死。
And he said, Behold now, I am old, I know not the day of my death:

27:3    現在拿你的器械，就是箭囊和弓，往田野去為我打獵，
Now therefore take, I pray thee, thy weapons, thy quiver and thy bow, and go out to the field, and take me some venison;

27:4    照我所愛的作成美味，拿來給我吃，使我在未死之先給你祝福。
And make me savoury meat, such as I love, and bring it to me, that I may eat; that my soul may bless thee before I die.

27:5    以撒對他兒子以掃說話，利百加也聽見了。以掃往田野去打獵，要得野味帶來。
And Rebekah heard when Isaac spake to Esau his son. And Esau went to the field to hunt for venison, and to bring it.

27:6    利百加就對她兒子雅各說，我聽見你父親對你哥哥以掃說，
And Rebekah spake unto Jacob her son, saying, Behold, I heard thy father speak unto Esau thy brother, saying,

27:7    你去把野獸帶來，作成美味給我吃，我好在未死之先，在耶和華面前給你祝福。
Bring me venison, and make me savoury meat, that I may eat, and bless thee before the LORD before my death.

27:8    現在，我兒，你要照著我所吩咐你的，聽從我的話。
Now therefore, my son, obey my voice according to that which I command thee.

27:9    你到羊群裡去，給我拿兩隻肥山羊羔來，我便照你父親所愛的給他作成美味。
Go now to the flock, and fetch me from thence two good kids of the goats; and I will make them savoury meat for thy father, such as he loveth:

27:10    你拿到你父親那裡給他吃，使他在未死之先給你祝福。
And thou shalt bring it to thy father, that he may eat, and that he may bless thee before his death.

27:11    雅各對他母親利百加說，我哥哥以掃渾身是有毛的，我身上是光滑的。
And Jacob said to Rebekah his mother, Behold, Esau my brother is a hairy man, and I am a smooth man:

27:12    倘若我父親摸著我，必以我為欺哄人的，我就招咒詛，不得祝福。
My father peradventure will feel me, and I shall seem to him as a deceiver; and I shall bring a curse upon me, and not a blessing.

27:13    他母親對他說，我兒，你招的咒詛歸到我身上。你只管聽我的話，去把羊羔給我拿來。
And his mother said unto him, Upon me be thy curse, my son: only obey my voice, and go fetch me them.

27:14    他便去拿來，交給他母親。他母親就照他父親所愛的作成美味。
And he went, and fetched, and brought them to his mother: and his mother made savoury meat, such as his father loved.

27:15    利百加又把家裡所存大兒子以掃上好的衣服給他小兒子雅各穿上，
And Rebekah took goodly raiment of her eldest son Esau, which were with her in the house, and put them upon Jacob her younger son:

27:16    又用山羊羔皮包在雅各的手上和頸項的光滑處，
And she put the skins of the kids of the goats upon his hands, and upon the smooth of his neck:

27:17    就把所作的美味和餅交在他兒子雅各的手裡。
And she gave the savoury meat and the bread, which she had prepared, into the hand of her son Jacob.

27:18    雅各到他父親那裡說，我父親。他說，我在這裡。我兒，你是誰。
And he came unto his father, and said, My father: and he said, Here am I; who art thou, my son?

27:19    雅各對他父親說，我是你的長子以掃。我已照你所吩咐我的行了。請起來坐著，吃我的野味，好給我祝福。
And Jacob said unto his father, I am Esau thy first born; I have done according as thou badest me: arise, I pray thee, sit and eat of my venison, that thy soul may bless me.

27:20    以撒對他兒子說，我兒，你如何找得這嗎快呢。他說，因為耶和華你的神使我遇見好機會得著的。
And Isaac said unto his son, How is it that thou hast found it so quickly, my son? And he said, Because the LORD thy God brought it to me.

27:21    以撒對雅各說，我兒，你近前來，我摸摸你，知道你真是我的兒子以掃不是。
And Isaac said unto Jacob, Come near, I pray thee, that I may feel thee, my son, whether thou be my very son Esau or not.

27:22    雅各就挨近他父親以撒。以撒摸著他，說，聲音是雅各的聲音，手卻是以掃的手。
And Jacob went near unto Isaac his father; and he felt him, and said, The voice is Jacob's voice, but the hands are the hands of Esau.

27:23    以撒就辨不出他來。因為他手上有毛，像他哥哥以掃的手一樣，就給他祝福。
And he discerned him not, because his hands were hairy, as his brother Esau's hands: so he blessed him.

27:24    又說，你真是我兒子以掃嗎，他說，我是。
And he said, Art thou my very son Esau? And he said, I am.

27:25    以撒說，你遞給我，我好吃我兒子的野味，給你祝福。雅各就遞給他，他便吃了，又拿酒給他，他也喝了。
And he said, Bring it near to me, and I will eat of my son's venison, that my soul may bless thee. And he brought it near to him, and he did eat: and he brought him wine, and he drank.

27:26    他父親以撒對他說，我兒，你上前來與我親嘴。
And his father Isaac said unto him, Come near now, and kiss me, my son.

27:27    他就上前與父親親嘴。他父親一聞他衣服上的香氣，就給他祝福，說，我兒的香氣如同耶和華賜福之田地的香氣一樣。
And he came near, and kissed him: and he smelled the smell of his raiment, and blessed him, and said, See, the smell of my son is as the smell of a field which the LORD hath blessed:

27:28    願神賜你天上的甘露，地上的肥土，並許多五穀新酒。
Therefore God give thee of the dew of heaven, and the fatness of the earth, and plenty of corn and wine:

27:29    願多民事奉你，多國跪拜你。願你作你弟兄的主。你母親的兒子向你跪拜。凡咒詛你的，願他受咒詛。為你祝福的，願他蒙福。
Let people serve thee, and nations bow down to thee: be lord over thy brethren, and let thy mother's sons bow down to thee: cursed be every one that curseth thee, and blessed be he that blesseth thee.

27:30    以撒為雅各祝福已畢，雅各從他父親那裡才出來，他哥哥以掃正打獵回來，
And it came to pass, as soon as Isaac had made an end of blessing Jacob, and Jacob was yet scarce gone out from the presence of Isaac his father, that Esau his brother came in from his hunting.

27:31    也作了美味，拿來給他父親，說，請父親起來，吃你兒子的野味，好給我祝福。
And he also had made savoury meat, and brought it unto his father, and said unto his father, Let my father arise, and eat of his son's venison, that thy soul may bless me.

27:32    他父親以撒對他說，你是誰，他說，我是你的長子以掃。
And Isaac his father said unto him, Who art thou? And he said, I am thy son, thy firstborn Esau.

27:33    以撒就大大地戰兢，說，你未來之先，是誰得了野味拿來給我呢，我已經吃了，為他祝福。他將來也必蒙福。
And Isaac trembled very exceedingly, and said, Who? where is he that hath taken venison, and brought it me, and I have eaten of all before thou camest, and have blessed him? yea, and he shall be blessed.

27:34    以掃聽了他父親的話，就放聲痛哭，說，我父阿，求你也為我祝福。
And when Esau heard the words of his father, he cried with a great and exceeding bitter cry, and said unto his father, Bless me, even me also, O my father.

27:35    以撒說，你兄弟已經用詭計來將你的福分奪去了。
And he said, Thy brother came with subtilty, and hath taken away thy blessing.

27:36    以掃說，他名雅各，豈不是正對嗎，因為他欺騙了我兩次。他從前奪了我長子的名分，你看，他現在又奪了我的福分。以掃又說，你沒有留下為我可祝的福嗎。
And he said, Is not he rightly named Jacob? for he hath supplanted me these two times: he took away my birthright; and, behold, now he hath taken away my blessing. And he said, Hast thou not reserved a blessing for me?

27:37    以撒回答以掃說，我已立他為你的主，使他的弟兄都給他作僕人，並賜他五穀新酒可以養生。我兒，現在我還能為你作什麼呢。
And Isaac answered and said unto Esau, Behold, I have made him thy lord, and all his brethren have I given to him for servants; and with corn and wine have I sustained him: and what shall I do now unto thee, my son?

27:38    以掃對他父親說，父阿，你只有一樣可祝的福嗎，我父阿，求你也為我祝福。以掃就放聲而哭。
And Esau said unto his father, Hast thou but one blessing, my father? bless me, even me also, O my father. And Esau lifted up his voice, and wept.

27:39    他父親以撒說，地上的肥土必為你所住。天上的甘露必為你所得。
And Isaac his father answered and said unto him, Behold, thy dwelling shall be the fatness of the earth, and of the dew of heaven from above;

27:40    你必倚靠刀劍度日，又必事奉你的兄弟。到你強盛的時候，必從你頸項上掙開他的軛。
And by thy sword shalt thou live, and shalt serve thy brother; and it shall come to pass when thou shalt have the dominion, that thou shalt break his yoke from off thy neck.

27:41    以掃因他父親給雅各祝的福，就怨恨雅各，心裡說，為我父親居喪的日子近了，到那時候，我要殺我的兄弟雅各。
And Esau hated Jacob because of the blessing wherewith his father blessed him: and Esau said in his heart, The days of mourning for my father are at hand; then will I slay my brother Jacob.

27:42    有人把利百加大兒子以掃的話告訴利百加，她就打發人去，叫了她小兒子雅各來，對他說，你哥哥以掃想要殺你，報仇雪恨。
And these words of Esau her elder son were told to Rebekah: and she sent and called Jacob her younger son, and said unto him, Behold, thy brother Esau, as touching thee, doth comfort himself, purposing to kill thee.

27:43    現在，我兒，你要聽我的話，起來，逃往哈蘭，我哥哥拉班那裡去，
Now therefore, my son, obey my voice; and arise, flee thou to Laban my brother to Haran;

27:44    同他住些日子，直等你哥哥的怒氣消了。
And tarry with him a few days, until thy brother's fury turn away;

27:45    你哥哥向你消了怒氣，忘了你向他所作的事，我便打發人去把你從那裡帶回來。為什麼一日喪你們二人呢。
Until thy brother's anger turn away from thee, and he forget that which thou hast done to him: then I will send, and fetch thee from thence: why should I be deprived also of you both in one day?

27:46    利百加對以撒說，我因這赫人的女子連性命都厭煩了。倘若雅各也娶赫人的女子為妻，像這些一樣，我活著還有什麼益處呢。
And Rebekah said to Isaac, I am weary of my life because of the daughters of Heth: if Jacob take a wife of the daughters of Heth, such as these which are of the daughters of the land, what good shall my life do me?




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第28 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


28:1    以撒叫了雅各來，給他祝福，並囑咐他說，你不要娶迦南的女子為妻。
And Isaac called Jacob, and blessed him, and charged him, and said unto him, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan.

28:2    你起身往巴旦亞蘭去，到你外祖彼土利家裡，在你母舅拉班的女兒中娶一女為妻。
Arise, go to Padanaram, to the house of Bethuel thy mother's father; and take thee a wife from thence of the daughters of Laban thy mother's brother.

28:3    願全能的神賜福給你，使你生養眾多，成為多族，
And God Almighty bless thee, and make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, that thou mayest be a multitude of people;

28:4    將應許亞伯拉罕的福賜給你和你的後裔，使你承受你所寄居的地為業，就是神賜給亞伯拉罕的地。
And give thee the blessing of Abraham, to thee, and to thy seed with thee; that thou mayest inherit the land wherein thou art a stranger, which God gave unto Abraham.

28:5    以撒打發雅各走了，他就往巴旦亞蘭去，到亞蘭人彼土利的兒子拉班那裡。拉班是雅各，以掃的母舅。
And Isaac sent away Jacob: and he went to Padanaram unto Laban, son of Bethuel the Syrian, the brother of Rebekah, Jacob's and Esau's mother.

28:6    以掃見以撒已經給雅各祝福，而且打發他往巴旦亞蘭去，在那裡娶妻，並見祝福的時候囑咐他說，不要娶迦南的女子為妻，
When Esau saw that Isaac had blessed Jacob, and sent him away to Padanaram, to take him a wife from thence; and that as he blessed him he gave him a charge, saying, Thou shalt not take a wife of the daughters of Canaan;

28:7    又見雅各聽從父母的話往巴旦亞蘭去了，
And that Jacob obeyed his father and his mother, and was gone to Padanaram;

28:8    以掃就曉得他父親以撒看不中迦南的女子，
And Esau seeing that the daughters of Canaan pleased not Isaac his father;

28:9    便往以實瑪利那裡去，在他二妻之外又娶了瑪哈拉為妻。他是亞伯拉罕兒子以實瑪利的女兒，尼拜約的妹子。
Then went Esau unto Ishmael, and took unto the wives which he had Mahalath the daughter of Ishmael Abraham's son, the sister of Nebajoth, to be his wife.

28:10    雅各出了別是巴，向哈蘭走去。
And Jacob went out from Beersheba, and went toward Haran.

28:11    到了一個地方，因為太陽落了，就在那裡住宿，便拾起那地方的一塊石頭枕在頭下，在那裡躺臥睡了，
And he lighted upon a certain place, and tarried there all night, because the sun was set; and he took of the stones of that place, and put them for his pillows, and lay down in that place to sleep.

28:12    夢見一個梯子立在地上，梯子的頭頂著天，有神的使者在梯子上，上去下來。
And he dreamed, and behold a ladder set up on the earth, and the top of it reached to heaven: and behold the angels of God ascending and descending on it.

28:13    耶和華站在梯子以上（或作站在他旁邊），說，我是耶和華你祖亞伯拉罕的神，也是以撒的神。我要將你現在所躺臥之地賜給你和你的後裔。
And, behold, the LORD stood above it, and said, I am the LORD God of Abraham thy father, and the God of Isaac: the land whereon thou liest, to thee will I give it, and to thy seed;

28:14    你的後裔必像地上的塵沙那樣多，必向東西南北開展。地上萬族必因你和你的後裔得福。
And thy seed shall be as the dust of the earth, and thou shalt spread abroad to the west, and to the east, and to the north, and to the south: and in thee and in thy seed shall all the families of the earth be blessed.

28:15    我也與你同在。你無論往哪裡去，我必保佑你，領你歸回這地，總不離棄你，直到我成全了向你所應許的。
And, behold, I am with thee, and will keep thee in all places whither thou goest, and will bring thee again into this land; for I will not leave thee, until I have done that which I have spoken to thee of.

28:16    雅各睡醒了，說，耶和華真在這裡，我竟不知道。
And Jacob awaked out of his sleep, and he said, Surely the LORD is in this place; and I knew it not.

28:17    就懼怕，說，這地方何等可畏，這不是別的，乃是神的殿，也是天的門。
And he was afraid, and said, How dreadful is this place! this is none other but the house of God, and this is the gate of heaven.

28:18    雅各清早起來，把所枕的石頭立作柱子，澆油在上面。
And Jacob rose up early in the morning, and took the stone that he had put for his pillows, and set it up for a pillar, and poured oil upon the top of it.

28:19    他就給那地方起名叫伯特利（就是神殿的意思）。但那地方起先名叫路斯。
And he called the name of that place Bethel: but the name of that city was called Luz at the first.

28:20    雅各許願說，神若與我同在，在我所行的路上保佑我，又給我食物吃，衣服穿，
And Jacob vowed a vow, saying, If God will be with me, and will keep me in this way that I go, and will give me bread to eat, and raiment to put on,

28:21    使我平平安安地回到我父親的家，我就必以耶和華為我的神。
So that I come again to my father's house in peace; then shall the LORD be my God:

28:22    我所立為柱子的石頭也必作神的殿，凡你所賜給我的，我必將十分之一獻給你。
And this stone, which I have set for a pillar, shall be God's house: and of all that thou shalt give me I will surely give the tenth unto thee.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第29 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


29:1    雅各起行，到了東方人之地，
Then Jacob went on his journey, and came into the land of the people of the east.

29:2    看見田間有一口井，有三群羊臥在井旁。因為人飲羊群都是用那井裡的水。井口上的石頭是大的。
And he looked, and behold a well in the field, and, lo, there were three flocks of sheep lying by it; for out of that well they watered the flocks: and a great stone was upon the well's mouth.

29:3    常有羊群在那裡聚集，牧人把石頭轉離井口飲羊，隨後又把石頭放在井口的原處。
And thither were all the flocks gathered: and they rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the sheep, and put the stone again upon the well's mouth in his place.

29:4    雅各對牧人說，弟兄們，你們是哪裡來的，他們說，我們是哈蘭來的。
And Jacob said unto them, My brethren, whence be ye? And they said, Of Haran are we.

29:5    他問他們說，拿鶴的孫子拉班，你們認識嗎。他們說，我們認識。
And he said unto them, Know ye Laban the son of Nahor? And they said, We know him.

29:6    雅各說，他平安嗎。他們說，平安。看哪，他女兒拉結領著羊來了。
And he said unto them, Is he well? And they said, He is well: and, behold, Rachel his daughter cometh with the sheep.

29:7    雅各說，日頭還高，不是羊群聚集的時候，你們不如飲羊，再去放一放。
And he said, Lo, it is yet high day, neither is it time that the cattle should be gathered together: water ye the sheep, and go and feed them.

29:8    他們說，我們不能，必等羊群聚齊，人把石頭轉離井口才可飲羊。
And they said, We cannot, until all the flocks be gathered together, and till they roll the stone from the well's mouth; then we water the sheep.

29:9    雅各正和他們說話的時候，拉結領著她父親的羊來了，因為那些羊是她牧放的。
And while he yet spake with them, Rachel came with her father's sheep: for she kept them.

29:10    雅各看見母舅拉班的女兒拉結和母舅拉班的羊群，就上前把石頭轉離井口，飲他母舅拉班的羊群。
And it came to pass, when Jacob saw Rachel the daughter of Laban his mother's brother, and the sheep of Laban his mother's brother, that Jacob went near, and rolled the stone from the well's mouth, and watered the flock of Laban his mother's brother.

29:11    雅各與拉結親嘴，就放聲而哭。
And Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his voice, and wept.

29:12    雅各告訴拉結，自己是她父親的外甥，是利百加的兒子，拉結就跑去告訴她父親。
And Jacob told Rachel that he was her father's brother, and that he was Rebekah's son: and she ran and told her father.

29:13    拉班聽見外甥雅各的資訊，就跑去迎接，抱著他，與他親嘴，領他到自己的家。雅各將一切的情由告訴拉班。
And it came to pass, when Laban heard the tidings of Jacob his sister's son, that he ran to meet him, and embraced him, and kissed him, and brought him to his house. And he told Laban all these things.

29:14    拉班對他說，你實在是我的骨肉。雅各就和他同住了一個月。
And Laban said to him, Surely thou art my bone and my flesh. And he abode with him the space of a month.

29:15    拉班對雅各說，你雖是我的骨肉（原文作弟兄），豈可白白地服事我。請告訴我，你要什麼為工價。
And Laban said unto Jacob, Because thou art my brother, shouldest thou therefore serve me for nought? tell me, what shall thy wages be?

29:16    拉班有兩個女兒，大的名叫利亞，小的名叫拉結。
And Laban had two daughters: the name of the elder was Leah, and the name of the younger was Rachel.

29:17    利亞的眼睛沒有神氣，拉結卻生得美貌俊秀。
Leah was tender eyed; but Rachel was beautiful and well favoured.

29:18    雅各愛拉結，就說，我願為你小女兒拉結服事你七年。
And Jacob loved Rachel; and said, I will serve thee seven years for Rachel thy younger daughter.

29:19    拉班說，我把她給你，勝似給別人，你與我同住吧。
And Laban said, It is better that I give her to thee, than that I should give her to another man: abide with me.

29:20    雅各就為拉結服事了七年。他因為深愛拉結，就看這七年如同幾天。
And Jacob served seven years for Rachel; and they seemed unto him but a few days, for the love he had to her.

29:21    雅各對拉班說，日期已經滿了，求你把我的妻子給我，我好與她同房。
And Jacob said unto Laban, Give me my wife, for my days are fulfilled, that I may go in unto her.

29:22    拉班就擺設筵席，請齊了那地方的眾人。
And Laban gathered together all the men of the place, and made a feast.

29:23    到晚上，拉班將女兒利亞送來給雅各，雅各就與她同房。
And it came to pass in the evening, that he took Leah his daughter, and brought her to him; and he went in unto her.

29:24    拉班又將婢女悉帕給女兒利亞作使女。
And Laban gave unto his daughter Leah Zilpah his maid for an handmaid.

29:25    到了早晨，雅各一看是利亞，就對拉班說，你向我作的是什麼事呢。我服事你，不是為拉結嗎，你為什麼欺哄我呢。
And it came to pass, that in the morning, behold, it was Leah: and he said to Laban, What is this thou hast done unto me? did not I serve with thee for Rachel? wherefore then hast thou beguiled me?

29:26    拉班說，大女兒還沒有給人，先把小女兒給人，在我們這地方沒有這規矩。
And Laban said, It must not be so done in our country, to give the younger before the firstborn.

29:27    你為這個滿了七日，我就把那個也給你，你再為她服事我七年。
Fulfil her week, and we will give thee this also for the service which thou shalt serve with me yet seven other years.

29:28    雅各就如此行。滿了利亞的七日，拉班便將女兒拉結給雅各為妻。
And Jacob did so, and fulfilled her week: and he gave him Rachel his daughter to wife also.

29:29    拉班又將婢女闢拉給女兒拉結作使女。
And Laban gave to Rachel his daughter Bilhah his handmaid to be her maid.

29:30    雅各也與拉結同房，並且愛拉結勝似愛利亞，於是又服事了拉班七年。
And he went in also unto Rachel, and he loved also Rachel more than Leah, and served with him yet seven other years.

29:31    耶和華見利亞失寵（原文作被恨下同），就使她生育，拉結卻不生育。
And when the LORD saw that Leah was hated, he opened her womb: but Rachel was barren.

29:32    利亞懷孕生子，就給他起名叫流便（就是有兒子的意思），因而說，耶和華看見我的苦情，如今我的丈夫必愛我。
And Leah conceived, and bare a son, and she called his name Reuben: for she said, Surely the LORD hath looked upon my affliction; now therefore my husband will love me.

29:33    她又懷孕生子，就說，耶和華因為聽見我失寵，所以又賜給我這個兒子。於是給他起名叫西緬（就是聽見的意思）。
And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Because the LORD hath heard that I was hated, he hath therefore given me this son also: and she called his name Simeon.

29:34    她又懷孕生子，起名叫利未（就是聯合的意思），說，我給丈夫生了三個兒子，他必與我聯合。
And she conceived again, and bare a son; and said, Now this time will my husband be joined unto me, because I have born him three sons: therefore was his name called Levi.

29:35    她又懷孕生子，說，這回我要讚美耶和華，因此給他起名叫猶大（就是讚美的意思）。這才停了生育。
And she conceived again, and bare a son: and she said, Now will I praise the LORD: therefore she called his name Judah; and left bearing.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第30 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


30:1    拉結見自己不給雅各生子，就嫉妒她姊姊，對雅各說，你給我孩子，不然我就死了。
And when Rachel saw that she bare Jacob no children, Rachel envied her sister; and said unto Jacob, Give me children, or else I die.

30:2    雅各向拉結生氣，說，叫你不生育的是神，我豈能代替他作主呢。
And Jacob's anger was kindled against Rachel: and he said, Am I in God's stead, who hath withheld from thee the fruit of the womb?

30:3    拉結說，有我的使女闢拉在這裡，你可以與她同房，使她生子在我膝下，我便因她也得孩子（原文作被建立）。
And she said, Behold my maid Bilhah, go in unto her; and she shall bear upon my knees, that I may also have children by her.

30:4    拉結就把她的使女闢拉給丈夫為妾。雅各便與她同房，
And she gave him Bilhah her handmaid to wife: and Jacob went in unto her.

30:5    闢拉就懷孕，給雅各生了一個兒子。
And Bilhah conceived, and bare Jacob a son.

30:6    拉結說，神伸了我的冤，也聽了我的聲音，賜我一個兒子，因此給他起名叫但（就是伸冤的意思）。
And Rachel said, God hath judged me, and hath also heard my voice, and hath given me a son: therefore called she his name Dan.

30:7    拉結的使女闢拉又懷孕，給雅各生了第二個兒子。
And Bilhah Rachel's maid conceived again, and bare Jacob a second son.

30:8    拉結說，我與我姊姊大大相爭，並且得勝，於是給他起名叫拿弗他利（就是相爭的意思）。
And Rachel said, With great wrestlings have I wrestled with my sister, and I have prevailed: and she called his name Naphtali.

30:9    利亞見自己停了生育，就把使女悉帕給雅各為妾。
When Leah saw that she had left bearing, she took Zilpah her maid, and gave her Jacob to wife.

30:10    利亞的使女悉帕給雅各生了一個兒子。
And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a son.

30:11    利亞說，萬幸，於是給他起名叫迦得（就是萬幸的意思）。
And Leah said, A troop cometh: and she called his name Gad.

30:12    利亞的使女悉帕又給雅各生了第二個兒子。
And Zilpah Leah's maid bare Jacob a second son.

30:13    利亞說，我有福阿，眾女子都要稱我是有福的，於是給他起名叫亞設（就是有福的意思）。
And Leah said, Happy am I, for the daughters will call me blessed: and she called his name Asher.

30:14    割麥子的時候，流便往田裡去，尋見風茄，拿來給他母親利亞。拉結對利亞說，請你把你兒子的風茄給我些。
And Reuben went in the days of wheat harvest, and found mandrakes in the field, and brought them unto his mother Leah. Then Rachel said to Leah, Give me, I pray thee, of thy son's mandrakes.

30:15    利亞說，你奪了我的丈夫還算小事嗎，你又要奪我兒子的風茄嗎。拉結說，為你兒子的風茄，今夜他可以與你同寢。
And she said unto her, Is it a small matter that thou hast taken my husband? and wouldest thou take away my son's mandrakes also? And Rachel said, Therefore he shall lie with thee to night for thy son's mandrakes.

30:16    到了晚上，雅各從田裡回來，利亞出來迎接他，說，你要與我同寢，因為我實在用我兒子的風茄把你僱下了。那一夜，雅各就與她同寢。
And Jacob came out of the field in the evening, and Leah went out to meet him, and said, Thou must come in unto me; for surely I have hired thee with my son's mandrakes. And he lay with her that night.

30:17    神應允了利亞，她就懷孕，給雅各生了第五個兒子。
And God hearkened unto Leah, and she conceived, and bare Jacob the fifth son.

30:18    利亞說，神給了我價值，因為我把使女給了我丈夫。於是給他起名叫以薩迦（就是價值的意思）。
And Leah said, God hath given me my hire, because I have given my maiden to my husband: and she called his name Issachar.

30:19    利亞又懷孕，給雅各生了第六個兒子。
And Leah conceived again, and bare Jacob the sixth son.

30:20    利亞說，神賜我厚賞。我丈夫必與我同住，因我給他生了六個兒子。於是給他起名西布倫（就是同住的意思）。
And Leah said, God hath endued me with a good dowry; now will my husband dwell with me, because I have born him six sons: and she called his name Zebulun.

30:21    後來又生了一個女兒，給她起名叫底拿。
And afterwards she bare a daughter, and called her name Dinah.

30:22    神顧念拉結，應允了她，使她能生育。
And God remembered Rachel, and God hearkened to her, and opened her womb.

30:23    拉結懷孕生子，說，神除去了我的羞恥。
And she conceived, and bare a son; and said, God hath taken away my reproach:

30:24    就給他起名叫約瑟（就是增添的意思），意思說，願耶和華再增添我一個兒子。
And she called his name Joseph; and said, The LORD shall add to me another son.

30:25    拉結生約瑟之後，雅各對拉班說，請打發我走，叫我回到我本鄉本土去。
And it came to pass, when Rachel had born Joseph, that Jacob said unto Laban, Send me away, that I may go unto mine own place, and to my country.

30:26    請你把我服事你所得的妻子和兒女給我，讓我走。我怎樣服事你，你都知道。
Give me my wives and my children, for whom I have served thee, and let me go: for thou knowest my service which I have done thee.

30:27    拉班對他說，我若在你眼前蒙恩，請你仍與我同住，因為我已算定，耶和華賜福與我是為你的緣故。
And Laban said unto him, I pray thee, if I have found favour in thine eyes, tarry: for I have learned by experience that the LORD hath blessed me for thy sake.

30:28    又說，請你定你的工價，我就給你。
And he said, Appoint me thy wages, and I will give it.

30:29    雅各對他說，我怎樣服事你，你的牲畜在我手裡怎樣，是你知道的。
And he said unto him, Thou knowest how I have served thee, and how thy cattle was with me.

30:30    我未來之先，你所有的很少，現今卻發大眾多，耶和華隨我的腳步賜福與你。如今，我什麼時候才為自己興家立業呢。
For it was little which thou hadst before I came, and it is now increased unto a multitude; and the LORD hath blessed thee since my coming: and now when shall I provide for mine own house also?

30:31    拉班說，我當給你什麼呢。雅各說，什麼你也不必給我，只有一件事，你若應承，我便仍舊牧放你的羊群。
And he said, What shall I give thee? And Jacob said, Thou shalt not give me any thing: if thou wilt do this thing for me, I will again feed and keep thy flock.

30:32    今天我要走遍你的羊群，把綿羊中凡有點的，有斑的，和黑色的，並山羊中凡有斑的，有點的，都挑出來。將來這一等的就算我的工價。
I will pass through all thy flock to day, removing from thence all the speckled and spotted cattle, and all the brown cattle among the sheep, and the spotted and speckled among the goats: and of such shall be my hire.

30:33    以後你來檢視我的工價，凡在我手裡的山羊不是有點有斑的，綿羊不是黑色的，那就算是我偷的。這樣便可證出我的公義來。
So shall my righteousness answer for me in time to come, when it shall come for my hire before thy face: every one that is not speckled and spotted among the goats, and brown among the sheep, that shall be counted stolen with me.

30:34    拉班說，好阿ξ儀樵剛兆拍愕幕靶小
And Laban said, Behold, I would it might be according to thy word.

30:35    當日，拉班把有紋的，有斑的公山羊，有點的，有斑的，有雜白紋的母山羊，並黑色的綿羊，都挑出來，交在他兒子們的手下，
And he removed that day the he goats that were ringstraked and spotted, and all the she goats that were speckled and spotted, and every one that had some white in it, and all the brown among the sheep, and gave them into the hand of his sons.

30:36    又使自己和雅各相離三天的路程。雅各就牧養拉班其餘的羊。
And he set three days' journey betwixt himself and Jacob: and Jacob fed the rest of Laban's flocks.

30:37    雅各拿楊樹，杏樹，楓樹的嫩枝，將皮剝成白紋，使枝子露出白的來，
And Jacob took him rods of green poplar, and of the hazel and chestnut tree; and pilled white strakes in them, and made the white appear which was in the rods.

30:38    將剝了皮的枝子，對著羊群，插在飲羊的水溝裡和水槽裡，羊來喝的時候，牝牡配合。
And he set the rods which he had pilled before the flocks in the gutters in the watering troughs when the flocks came to drink, that they should conceive when they came to drink.

30:39    羊對著枝子配合，就生下有紋的，有點的，有斑的來。
And the flocks conceived before the rods, and brought forth cattle ringstraked, speckled, and spotted.

30:40    雅各把羊羔分出來，使拉班的羊與這有紋和黑色的羊相對，把自己的羊另放一處，不叫他和拉班的羊混雜。
And Jacob did separate the lambs, and set the faces of the flocks toward the ringstraked, and all the brown in the flock of Laban; and he put his own flocks by themselves, and put them not unto Laban's cattle.

30:41    到羊群肥壯配合的時候，雅各就把枝子插在水溝裡，使羊對著枝子配合。
And it came to pass, whensoever the stronger cattle did conceive, that Jacob laid the rods before the eyes of the cattle in the gutters, that they might conceive among the rods.

30:42    只是到羊瘦弱配合的時候就不插枝子。這樣，瘦弱的就歸拉班，肥壯的就歸雅各。
But when the cattle were feeble, he put them not in: so the feebler were Laban's, and the stronger Jacob's.

30:43    於是雅各極其發大，得了許多的羊群，僕婢，駱駝，和驢。
And the man increased exceedingly, and had much cattle, and maidservants, and menservants, and camels, and asses.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第31 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


31:1    雅各聽見拉班的兒子們有話說，雅各把我們父親所有的都奪了去，並藉著我們父親的，得了這一切的榮耀（榮耀或作財）。
And he heard the words of Laban's sons, saying, Jacob hath taken away all that was our father's; and of that which was our father's hath he gotten all this glory.

31:2    雅各見拉班的氣色向他不如從前了。
And Jacob beheld the countenance of Laban, and, behold, it was not toward him as before.

31:3    耶和華對雅各說，你要回你祖，你父之地，到你親族那裡去，我必與你同在。
And the LORD said unto Jacob, Return unto the land of thy fathers, and to thy kindred; and I will be with thee.

31:4    雅各就打發人，叫拉結和利亞到田野羊群那裡來，
And Jacob sent and called Rachel and Leah to the field unto his flock,

31:5    對她們說，我看你們父親的氣色向我不如從前了。但我父親的神向來與我同在。
And said unto them, I see your father's countenance, that it is not toward me as before; but the God of my father hath been with me.

31:6    你們也知道，我盡了我的力量服事你們的父親。
And ye know that with all my power I have served your father.

31:7    你們的父親欺哄我，十次改了我的工價。然而神不容他害我。
And your father hath deceived me, and changed my wages ten times; but God suffered him not to hurt me.

31:8    他若說，有點的歸你作工價，羊群所生的都有點。他若說，有紋的歸你作工價，羊群所生的都有紋。
If he said thus, The speckled shall be thy wages; then all the cattle bare speckled: and if he said thus, The ringstraked shall be thy hire; then bare all the cattle ringstraked.

31:9    這樣，神把你們父親的牲畜奪來賜給我了。
Thus God hath taken away the cattle of your father, and given them to me.

31:10    羊配合的時候，我夢中舉目銥看，見跳母羊的公羊都是有紋的，有點的，有花斑的。
And it came to pass at the time that the cattle conceived, that I lifted up mine eyes, and saw in a dream, and, behold, the rams which leaped upon the cattle were ringstraked, speckled, and grisled.

31:11    神的使者在那夢中呼叫我說，雅各，我說，我在這裡。
And the angel of God spake unto me in a dream, saying, Jacob: And I said, Here am I.

31:12    他說，你舉目觀看，跳母羊的公羊都是有紋的，有點的，有花斑的。凡拉班向你所作的，我都看見了。
And he said, Lift up now thine eyes, and see, all the rams which leap upon the cattle are ringstraked, speckled, and grisled: for I have seen all that Laban doeth unto thee.

31:13    我是伯特利的神。你在那裡用油澆過柱子，向我許過願。現今你起來，離開這地，回你本地去吧。
I am the God of Bethel, where thou anointedst the pillar, and where thou vowedst a vow unto me: now arise, get thee out from this land, and return unto the land of thy kindred.

31:14    拉結和利亞回答雅各說，在我們父親的家裡還有我們可得的分嗎，還有我們的產業嗎。
And Rachel and Leah answered and said unto him, Is there yet any portion or inheritance for us in our father's house?

31:15    我們不是被他當作外人嗎。因為他賣了我們，吞了我們的價值。
Are we not counted of him strangers? for he hath sold us, and hath quite devoured also our money.

31:16    神從我們父親所奪出來的一切財物，那就是我們和我們孩子們的。現今凡神所吩咐你的，你只管去行吧。
For all the riches which God hath taken from our father, that is ours, and our children's: now then, whatsoever God hath said unto thee, do.

31:17    雅各起來，使他的兒子和妻子都騎上駱駝，
Then Jacob rose up, and set his sons and his wives upon camels;

31:18    又帶著他在巴旦亞蘭所得的一切牲畜和財物，往迦南地，他父親以撒那裡去了。
And he carried away all his cattle, and all his goods which he had gotten, the cattle of his getting, which he had gotten in Padanaram, for to go to Isaac his father in the land of Canaan.

31:19    當時拉班剪羊毛去了，拉結偷了他父親家中的神像。
And Laban went to shear his sheep: and Rachel had stolen the images that were her father's.

31:20    雅各揹著亞蘭人拉班偷走了，並不告訴他，
And Jacob stole away unawares to Laban the Syrian, in that he told him not that he fled.

31:21    就帶著所有的逃跑。他起身過大河，面向基列山行去。
So he fled with all that he had; and he rose up, and passed over the river, and set his face toward the mount Gilead.

31:22    到第三日，有人告訴拉班，雅各逃跑了。
And it was told Laban on the third day that Jacob was fled.

31:23    拉班帶領他的眾弟兄去追趕，追了七日，在基列山就追上了。
And he took his brethren with him, and pursued after him seven days' journey; and they overtook him in the mount Gilead.

31:24    夜間，神到亞蘭人拉班那裡，在夢中對他說，你要小心，不可與雅各說好說歹。
And God came to Laban the Syrian in a dream by night, and said unto him, Take heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.

31:25    拉班追上雅各。雅各在山上支搭帳棚。拉班和他的眾弟兄也在基列山上支搭帳棚。
Then Laban overtook Jacob. Now Jacob had pitched his tent in the mount: and Laban with his brethren pitched in the mount of Gilead.

31:26    拉班對雅各說，你作的是什麼事呢，你揹著我偷走了，又把我的女兒們帶了去，如同用刀劍擄去的一般。
And Laban said to Jacob, What hast thou done, that thou hast stolen away unawares to me, and carried away my daughters, as captives taken with the sword?

31:27    你為什麼暗暗地逃跑，偷著走，並不告訴我，叫我可以歡樂，唱歌，擊鼓，彈琴地送你回去。
Wherefore didst thou flee away secretly, and steal away from me; and didst not tell me, that I might have sent thee away with mirth, and with songs, with tabret, and with harp?

31:28    又不容我與外孫和女兒親嘴。你所行的真是愚昧。
And hast not suffered me to kiss my sons and my daughters? thou hast now done foolishly in so doing.

31:29    我手中原有能力害你，只是你父親的神昨夜對我說，你要小心，不可與雅各說好說歹。
It is in the power of my hand to do you hurt: but the God of your father spake unto me yesternight, saying, Take thou heed that thou speak not to Jacob either good or bad.

31:30    現在你雖然想你父家，不得不去，為什麼又偷了我的神像呢。
And now, though thou wouldest needs be gone, because thou sore longedst after thy father's house, yet wherefore hast thou stolen my gods?

31:31    雅各回答拉班說，恐怕你把你的女兒從我奪去，所以我逃跑。
And Jacob answered and said to Laban, Because I was afraid: for I said, Peradventure thou wouldest take by force thy daughters from me.

31:32    至於你的神像，你在誰那裡搜出來，就不容誰存活。當著我們的眾弟兄，你認一認，在我這裡有什麼東西是你的，就拿去。原來雅各不知道拉結偷了那些神像。
With whomsoever thou findest thy gods, let him not live: before our brethren discern thou what is thine with me, and take it to thee. For Jacob knew not that Rachel had stolen them.

31:33    拉班進了雅各，利亞，並兩個使女的帳棚，都沒有搜出來，就從利亞的帳棚出來，進了拉結的帳棚。
And Laban went into Jacob's tent, and into Leah's tent, and into the two maidservants' tents; but he found them not. Then went he out of Leah's tent, and entered into Rachel's tent.

31:34    拉結已經把神像藏在駱駝的馱簍裡，便坐在上頭。拉班摸遍了那帳棚，並沒有摸著
Now Rachel had taken the images, and put them in the camel's furniture, and sat upon them. And Laban searched all the tent, but found them not.

31:35    拉結對她父親說，現在我身上不便，不能在你面前起來，求我主不要生氣。這樣，拉班搜尋神像，竟沒有搜出來。
And she said to her father, Let it not displease my lord that I cannot rise up before thee; for the custom of women is upon me. And he searched, but found not the images.

31:36    雅各就發怒斥責拉班說，我有什麼過犯，有什麼罪惡，你竟這樣火速地追我。
And Jacob was wroth, and chode with Laban: and Jacob answered and said to Laban, What is my trespass? what is my sin, that thou hast so hotly pursued after me?

31:37    你摸遍了我一切的傢俱，你搜出什麼來呢。可以放在你我弟兄面前，叫他們在你我中間辨別辨別。
Whereas thou hast searched all my stuff, what hast thou found of all thy household stuff? set it here before my brethren and thy brethren, that they may judge betwixt us both.

31:38    我在你家這二十年，你的母綿羊，母山羊沒有掉過胎。你群中的公羊，我沒有吃過。
This twenty years have I been with thee; thy ewes and thy she goats have not cast their young, and the rams of thy flock have I not eaten.

31:39    被野獸撕裂的，我沒有帶來給你，是我自己賠上。無論是白日，是黑夜，被偷去的，你都向我索要。
That which was torn of beasts I brought not unto thee; I bare the loss of it; of my hand didst thou require it, whether stolen by day, or stolen by night.

31:40    我白日受盡乾熱，黑夜受盡寒霜，不得閤眼睡著，我常是這樣。
Thus I was; in the day the drought consumed me, and the frost by night; and my sleep departed from mine eyes.

31:41    我這二十年在你家裡，為你的兩個女兒服事你十四年，為你的羊群服事你六年，你又十次改了我的工價。
Thus have I been twenty years in thy house; I served thee fourteen years for thy two daughters, and six years for thy cattle: and thou hast changed my wages ten times.

31:42    若不是我父親以撒所敬畏的神，就是亞伯拉罕的神與我同在，你如今必定打發我空手而去。神看見我的苦情和我的勞碌，就在昨夜責備你。
Except the God of my father, the God of Abraham, and the fear of Isaac, had been with me, surely thou hadst sent me away now empty. God hath seen mine affliction and the labour of my hands, and rebuked thee yesternight.

31:43    拉班回答雅各說，這女兒是我的女兒，這些孩子是我的孩子，這些羊群也是我的羊群。凡在你眼前的都是我的。我的女兒並她們所生的孩子，我今日能向他們作什麼呢?
And Laban answered and said unto Jacob, These daughters are my daughters, and these children are my children, and these cattle are my cattle, and all that thou seest is mine: and what can I do this day unto these my daughters, or unto their children which they have born?

31:44    來吧，你我二人可以立約，作你我中間的證據。
Now therefore come thou, let us make a covenant, I and thou; and let it be for a witness between me and thee.

31:45    雅各就拿一塊石頭立作柱子，
And Jacob took a stone, and set it up for a pillar.

31:46    又對眾弟兄說，你們堆聚石頭。他們就拿石頭來堆成一堆，大家便在旁邊吃喝。
And Jacob said unto his brethren, Gather stones; and they took stones, and made an heap: and they did eat there upon the heap.

31:47    拉班稱那石堆為伊迦爾撒哈杜他，雅各卻稱那石堆為迦累得（都是以石堆為證的意思）。
And Laban called it Jegarsahadutha: but Jacob called it Galeed.

31:48    拉班說，今日這石堆作你我中間的證據。因此這地方名叫迦累得，
And Laban said, This heap is a witness between me and thee this day. Therefore was the name of it called Galeed;

31:49    又叫米斯巴，意思說，我們彼此離別以後，願耶和華在你我中間鑑察。
And Mizpah; for he said, The LORD watch between me and thee, when we are absent one from another.

31:50    你若苦待我的女兒，又在我的女兒以外另娶妻，雖沒有人知道，卻有神在你我中間作見證。
If thou shalt afflict my daughters, or if thou shalt take other wives beside my daughters, no man is with us; see, God is witness betwixt me and thee.

31:51    拉班又說，你看我在你我中間所立的這石堆和柱子。
And Laban said to Jacob, Behold this heap, and behold this pillar, which I have cast betwixt me and thee:

31:52    這石堆作證據，這柱子也作證據。我必不過這石堆去害你。你也不可過這石堆和柱子來害我。
This heap be witness, and this pillar be witness, that I will not pass over this heap to thee, and that thou shalt not pass over this heap and this pillar unto me, for harm.

31:53    但願亞伯拉罕的神和拿鶴的神，就是他們父親的神，在你我中間判斷。雅各就指著他父親以撒所敬畏的神起誓，
The God of Abraham, and the God of Nahor, the God of their father, judge betwixt us. And Jacob sware by the fear of his father Isaac.

31:54    又在山上獻祭，請眾弟兄來吃飯。他們吃了飯，便在山上住宿。
Then Jacob offered sacrifice upon the mount, and called his brethren to eat bread: and they did eat bread, and tarried all night in the mount.

31:55    拉班清早起來，與他外孫和女兒親嘴，給他們祝福，回往自己的地方去了。
And early in the morning Laban rose up, and kissed his sons and his daughters, and blessed them: and Laban departed, and returned unto his place.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第32 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


32:1    雅各仍舊行路，神的使者遇見他。
And Jacob went on his way, and the angels of God met him.

32:2    雅各看見他們就說，這是神的軍兵，於是給那地方起名叫瑪哈念（就是二軍兵的意思）。
And when Jacob saw them, he said, This is God's host: and he called the name of that place Mahanaim.

32:3    雅各打發人先往西珥地去，就是以東地，見他哥哥以掃，
And Jacob sent messengers before him to Esau his brother unto the land of Seir, the country of Edom.

32:4    吩咐他們說，你們對我主以掃說，你的僕人雅各這樣說，我在拉班那裡寄居，直到如今。
And he commanded them, saying, Thus shall ye speak unto my lord Esau; Thy servant Jacob saith thus, I have sojourned with Laban, and stayed there until now:

32:5    我有牛，驢，羊群，僕婢，現在打發人來報告我主，為要在你眼前蒙恩。
And I have oxen, and asses, flocks, and menservants, and womenservants: and I have sent to tell my lord, that I may find grace in thy sight.

32:6    所打發的人回到雅各那裡，說，我們到了你哥哥以掃那裡，他帶著四百人，正迎著你來。
And the messengers returned to Jacob, saying, We came to thy brother Esau, and also he cometh to meet thee, and four hundred men with him.

32:7    雅各就甚懼怕，而且愁煩，便把那與他同在的人口和羊群，牛群，駱駝分作兩隊，
Then Jacob was greatly afraid and distressed: and he divided the people that was with him, and the flocks, and herds, and the camels, into two bands;

32:8    說，以掃若來擊殺這一隊，剩下的那一隊還可以逃避。
And said, If Esau come to the one company, and smite it, then the other company which is left shall escape.

32:9    雅各說，耶和華我祖亞伯拉罕的神，我父親以撒的神阿，你曾對我說，回你本地本族去，我要厚待你。
And Jacob said, O God of my father Abraham, and God of my father Isaac, the LORD which saidst unto me, Return unto thy country, and to thy kindred, and I will deal well with thee:

32:10    你向僕人所施的一切慈愛和誠實，我一點也不配得。我先前只拿著我的杖過這約旦河，如今我卻成了兩隊了。
I am not worthy of the least of all the mercies, and of all the truth, which thou hast shewed unto thy servant; for with my staff I passed over this Jordan; and now I am become two bands.

32:11    求你救我脫離我哥哥以掃的手。因為我怕他來殺我，連妻子帶兒女一同殺了。
Deliver me, I pray thee, from the hand of my brother, from the hand of Esau: for I fear him, lest he will come and smite me, and the mother with the children.

32:12    你曾說，我必定厚待你，使你的後裔如同海邊的沙，多得不可勝數。
And thou saidst, I will surely do thee good, and make thy seed as the sand of the sea, which cannot be numbered for multitude.

32:13    當夜，雅各在那裡住宿，就從他所有的物中拿禮物要送給他哥哥以掃。
And he lodged there that same night; and took of that which came to his hand a present for Esau his brother;



32:14    母山羊二百隻，公山羊二十隻，母綿羊二百隻，公綿羊二十隻，
Two hundred she goats, and twenty he goats, two hundred ewes, and twenty rams,

32:15    奶崽子的駱駝三十隻各帶著崽子，母牛四十隻，公牛十隻，母驢二十匹，驢駒十匹。
Thirty milch camels with their colts, forty kine, and ten bulls, twenty she asses, and ten foals.

32:16    每樣各分一群，交在僕人手下，就對僕人說，你們要在我前頭過去，使群群相離，有空閒的地方。
And he delivered them into the hand of his servants, every drove by themselves; and said unto his servants, Pass over before me, and put a space betwixt drove and drove.

32:17    又吩咐儘先走的說，我哥哥以掃遇見你的時候，問你說，你是哪家的人，要往哪裡去，你前頭這些是誰的，
And he commanded the foremost, saying, When Esau my brother meeteth thee, and asketh thee, saying, Whose art thou? and whither goest thou? and whose are these before thee?

32:18    你就說，是你僕人雅各的，是送給我主以掃的禮物。他自己也在我們後邊。
Then thou shalt say, They be thy servant Jacob's; it is a present sent unto my lord Esau: and, behold, also he is behind us.

32:19    又吩咐第二，第三，和一切趕群畜的人說，你們遇見以掃的時候也要這樣對他說。
And so commanded he the second, and the third, and all that followed the droves, saying, On this manner shall ye speak unto Esau, when ye find him.

32:20    並且你們要說，你僕人雅各在我們後邊。因雅各心裡說，我藉著在我前頭去的禮物解他的恨，然後再見他的面，或者他容納我。
And say ye moreover, Behold, thy servant Jacob is behind us. For he said, I will appease him with the present that goeth before me, and afterward I will see his face; peradventure he will accept of me.

32:21    於是禮物先過去了。那夜，雅各在隊中住宿。
So went the present over before him: and himself lodged that night in the company.

32:22    他夜間起來，帶著兩個妻子，兩個使女，並十一個兒子，都過了雅博渡口，
And he rose up that night, and took his two wives, and his two womenservants, and his eleven sons, and passed over the ford Jabbok.

32:23    先打發他們過河，又打發所有的都過去，
And he took them, and sent them over the brook, and sent over that he had.

32:24    只剩下雅各一人。有一個人來和他摔跤，直到黎明。
And Jacob was left alone; and there wrestled a man with him until the breaking of the day.

32:25    那人見自己勝不過他，就將他的大腿窩摸了一把，雅各的大腿窩正在摔跤的時候就扭了。
And when he saw that he prevailed not against him, he touched the hollow of his thigh; and the hollow of Jacob's thigh was out of joint, as he wrestled with him.

32:26    那人說，天黎明瞭，容我去吧。雅各說，你不給我祝福，我就不容你去。
And he said, Let me go, for the day breaketh. And he said, I will not let thee go, except thou bless me.

32:27    那人說，你名叫什麼，他說，我名叫雅各。
And he said unto him, What is thy name? And he said, Jacob.

32:28    那人說，你的名不要再叫雅各，要叫以色列。因為你與神與人較力，都得了勝。
And he said, Thy name shall be called no more Jacob, but Israel: for as a prince hast thou power with God and with men, and hast prevailed.

32:29    雅各問他說，請將你的名告訴我。那人說，何必問我的名，於是在那裡給雅各祝福。
And Jacob asked him, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, thy name. And he said, Wherefore is it that thou dost ask after my name? And he blessed him there.

32:30    雅各便給那地方起名叫毗努伊勒（就是神之面的意思），意思說，我面對面見了神，我的性命仍得保全。
And Jacob called the name of the place Peniel: for I have seen God face to face, and my life is preserved.

32:31    日頭剛出來的時候，雅各經過毗努伊勒，他的大腿就瘸了。
And as he passed over Penuel the sun rose upon him, and he halted upon his thigh.

32:32    故此，以色列人不吃大腿窩的筋，直到今日，因為那人摸了雅各大腿窩的筋。
Therefore the children of Israel eat not of the sinew which shrank, which is upon the hollow of the thigh, unto this day: because he touched the hollow of Jacob's thigh in the sinew that shrank.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第33 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


33:1    雅各舉目觀看，見以掃來了，後頭跟著四百人，他就把孩子們分開交給利亞，拉結，和兩個使女，
And Jacob lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, Esau came, and with him four hundred men. And he divided the children unto Leah, and unto Rachel, and unto the two handmaids.

33:2    並且叫兩個使女和她們的孩子在前頭，利亞和她的孩子在後頭，拉結和約瑟在盡後頭。
And he put the handmaids and their children foremost, and Leah and her children after, and Rachel and Joseph hindermost.

33:3    他自己在他們前頭過去，一連七次俯伏在地才就近他哥哥。
And he passed over before them, and bowed himself to the ground seven times, until he came near to his brother.

33:4    以掃跑來迎接他，將他抱住，又摟著他的頸項，與他親嘴，兩個人就哭了。
And Esau ran to meet him, and embraced him, and fell on his neck, and kissed him: and they wept.

33:5    以掃舉目看見婦人孩子，就說，這些和你同行的是誰呢，雅各說，這些孩子是神施恩給你的僕人的。
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw the women and the children; and said, Who are those with thee? And he said, The children which God hath graciously given thy servant.

33:6    於是兩個使女和她們的孩子前來下拜。
Then the handmaidens came near, they and their children, and they bowed themselves.

33:7    利亞和她的孩子也前來下拜。隨後約瑟和拉結也前來下拜。
And Leah also with her children came near, and bowed themselves: and after came Joseph near and Rachel, and they bowed themselves.

33:8    以掃說，我所遇見的這些群畜是什麼意思呢，雅各說，是要在我主面前蒙恩的。
And he said, What meanest thou by all this drove which I met? And he said, These are to find grace in the sight of my lord.

33:9    以掃說，兄弟阿，我的已經夠了，你的仍歸你吧。
And Esau said, I have enough, my brother; keep that thou hast unto thyself.

33:10    雅各說，不然，我若在你眼前蒙恩，就求你從我手裡收下這禮物。因為我見了你的面，如同見了神的面，並且你容納了我。
And Jacob said, Nay, I pray thee, if now I have found grace in thy sight, then receive my present at my hand: for therefore I have seen thy face, as though I had seen the face of God, and thou wast pleased with me.

33:11    求你收下我帶來給你的禮物。因為神恩待我，使我充足。雅各再三地求他，他才收下了。
Take, I pray thee, my blessing that is brought to thee; because God hath dealt graciously with me, and because I have enough. And he urged him, and he took it.

33:12    以掃說，我們可以起身前往，我在你前頭走。
And he said, Let us take our journey, and let us go, and I will go before thee.

33:13    雅各對他說，我主知道孩子們年幼嬌嫩，牛羊也正在乳養的時候，若是催趕一天，群畜都必死了。
And he said unto him, My lord knoweth that the children are tender, and the flocks and herds with young are with me: and if men should overdrive them one day, all the flock will die.

33:14    求我主在僕人前頭走，我要量著在我面前群畜和孩子的力量慢慢地前行，直走到西珥我主那裡。
Let my lord, I pray thee, pass over before his servant: and I will lead on softly, according as the cattle that goeth before me and the children be able to endure, until I come unto my lord unto Seir.

33:15    以掃說，容我把跟隨我的人留幾個在你這裡。雅各說，何必呢，只要在我主眼前蒙恩就是了。
And Esau said, Let me now leave with thee some of the folk that are with me. And he said, What needeth it? let me find grace in the sight of my lord.

33:16    於是，以掃當日起行，回往西珥去了。
So Esau returned that day on his way unto Seir.

33:17    雅各就往疏割去，在那裡為自己蓋造房屋，又為牲畜搭棚。因此那地方名叫疏割（就是棚的意思）。
And Jacob journeyed to Succoth, and built him an house, and made booths for his cattle: therefore the name of the place is called Succoth.

33:18    雅各從巴旦亞蘭回來的時候，平平安安地到了迦南地的示劍城，在城東支搭帳棚，
And Jacob came to Shalem, a city of Shechem, which is in the land of Canaan, when he came from Padanaram; and pitched his tent before the city.

33:19    就用一百塊銀子向示劍的父親，哈抹的子孫買了支帳棚的那塊地，
And he bought a parcel of a field, where he had spread his tent, at the hand of the children of Hamor, Shechem's father, for an hundred pieces of money.

33:20    在那裡築了一座壇，起名叫伊利伊羅伊以色列（就是神，以色列神的意思）。
And he erected there an altar, and called it EleloheIsrael.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第34 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


34:1    利亞給雅各所生的女兒底拿出去，要見那地的女子們。
And Dinah the daughter of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob, went out to see the daughters of the land.

34:2    那地的主希未人，哈抹的兒子示劍看見她，就拉住她，與她行淫，玷辱她。
And when Shechem the son of Hamor the Hivite, prince of the country, saw her, he took her, and lay with her, and defiled her.

34:3    示劍的心繫戀雅各的女兒底拿，喜愛這女子，甜言蜜語地安慰她。
And his soul clave unto Dinah the daughter of Jacob, and he loved the damsel, and spake kindly unto the damsel.

34:4    示劍對他父親哈抹說，求你為我聘這女子為妻。
And Shechem spake unto his father Hamor, saying, Get me this damsel to wife.

34:5    雅各聽見示劍玷汙了他的女兒底拿。那時他的兒子們正和群畜在田野，雅各就閉口不言，等他們回來。
And Jacob heard that he had defiled Dinah his daughter: now his sons were with his cattle in the field: and Jacob held his peace until they were come.

34:6    示劍的父親哈抹出來見雅各，要和他商議。
And Hamor the father of Shechem went out unto Jacob to commune with him.

34:7    雅各的兒子們聽見這事，就從田野回來，人人忿恨，十分惱怒。因示劍在以色列家作了醜事，與雅各的女兒行淫，這本是不該作的事。
And the sons of Jacob came out of the field when they heard it: and the men were grieved, and they were very wroth, because he had wrought folly in Israel in lying with Jacob's daughter; which thing ought not to be done.

34:8    哈抹和他們商議說，我兒子示劍的心戀慕這女子，求你們將她給我的兒子為妻。
And Hamor communed with them, saying, The soul of my son Shechem longeth for your daughter: I pray you give her him to wife.

34:9    你們與我們彼此結親。你們可以把女兒給我們，也可以娶我們的女兒。
And make ye marriages with us, and give your daughters unto us, and take our daughters unto you.

34:10    你們與我們同住吧。這地都在你們面前，只管在此居住，作買賣，置產業。
And ye shall dwell with us: and the land shall be before you; dwell and trade ye therein, and get you possessions therein.

34:11    示劍對女兒的父親和弟兄們說，但願我在你們眼前蒙恩，你們向我要什麼，我必給你們。
And Shechem said unto her father and unto her brethren, Let me find grace in your eyes, and what ye shall say unto me I will give.

34:12    任憑向我要多重的聘金和禮物，我必照你們所說的給你們。只要把女子給我為妻。
Ask me never so much dowry and gift, and I will give according as ye shall say unto me: but give me the damsel to wife.

34:13    雅各的兒子們因為示劍玷汙了他們的妹子底拿，就用詭詐的話回答示劍和他父親哈抹，
And the sons of Jacob answered Shechem and Hamor his father deceitfully, and said, because he had defiled Dinah their sister:

34:14    對他們說，我們不能把我們的妹子給沒有受割禮的人為妻，因為那是我們的羞辱。
And they said unto them, We cannot do this thing, to give our sister to one that is uncircumcised; for that were a reproach unto us:

34:15    惟有一件才可以應允，若你們所有的男丁都受割禮，和我們一樣，
But in this will we consent unto you: If ye will be as we be, that every male of you be circumcised;

34:16    我們就把女兒給你們，也娶你們的女兒。我們便與你們同住，兩下成為一樣的人民。
Then will we give our daughters unto you, and we will take your daughters to us, and we will dwell with you, and we will become one people.

34:17    倘若你們不聽從我們受割禮，我們就帶著妹子走了。
But if ye will not hearken unto us, to be circumcised; then will we take our daughter, and we will be gone.

34:18    哈抹和他的兒子示劍喜歡這話。
And their words pleased Hamor, and Shechem Hamor's son.

34:19    那少年人作這事並不遲延，因為他喜愛雅各的女兒。他在他父親家中也是人最尊重的。
And the young man deferred not to do the thing, because he had delight in Jacob's daughter: and he was more honourable than all the house of his father.

34:20    哈抹和他兒子示劍到本城的門口，對本城的人說，
And Hamor and Shechem his son came unto the gate of their city, and communed with the men of their city, saying,

34:21    這些人與我們和睦，不如許他們在這地居住，作買賣。這地也寬闊，足可容下他們。我們可以娶他們的女兒為妻，也可以把我們的女兒嫁給他們。
These men are peaceable with us; therefore let them dwell in the land, and trade therein; for the land, behold, it is large enough for them; let us take their daughters to us for wives, and let us give them our daughters.

34:22    惟有一件事我們必須作，他們才肯應允和我們同住，成為一樣的人民，就是我們中間所有的男丁都要受割禮，和他們一樣。
Only herein will the men consent unto us for to dwell with us, to be one people, if every male among us be circumcised, as they are circumcised.

34:23    他們的群畜，貨財，和一切的牲口豈不都歸我們嗎。只要依從他們，他們就與我們同住。
Shall not their cattle and their substance and every beast of theirs be ours? only let us consent unto them, and they will dwell with us.

34:24    凡從城門出入的人就都聽從哈抹和他兒子示劍的話。於是凡從城門出入的男丁都受了割禮。
And unto Hamor and unto Shechem his son hearkened all that went out of the gate of his city; and every male was circumcised, all that went out of the gate of his city.

34:25    到第三天，眾人正在疼痛的時候，雅各的兩個兒子，就是底拿的哥哥西緬和利未，各拿刀劍，趁著眾人想不到的時候來到城中，把一切男丁都殺了，
And it came to pass on the third day, when they were sore, that two of the sons of Jacob, Simeon and Levi, Dinah's brethren, took each man his sword, and came upon the city boldly, and slew all the males.

34:26    又用刀殺了哈抹和他兒子示劍，把底拿從示劍家裡帶出來就走了。
And they slew Hamor and Shechem his son with the edge of the sword, and took Dinah out of Shechem's house, and went out.

34:27    雅各的兒子們因為他們的妹子受了玷汙，就來到被殺的人那裡，擄掠那城，
The sons of Jacob came upon the slain, and spoiled the city, because they had defiled their sister.

34:28    奪了他們的羊群，牛群，和驢，並城裡田間所有的。
They took their sheep, and their oxen, and their asses, and that which was in the city, and that which was in the field,

34:29    又把他們一切貨財，孩子，婦女，並各房中所有的，都擄掠去了。
And all their wealth, and all their little ones, and their wives took they captive, and spoiled even all that was in the house.

34:30    雅各對西緬和利未說，你們連累我，使我在這地的居民中，就是在迦南人和比利洗人中，有了臭名。我的人丁既然稀少，他們必聚集來擊殺我，我和全家的人都必滅絕。
And Jacob said to Simeon and Levi, Ye have troubled me to make me to stink among the inhabitants of the land, among the Canaanites and the Perizzites: and I being few in number, they shall gather themselves together against me, and slay me; and I shall be destroyed, I and my house.

34:31    他們說，他豈可待我們的妹子如同妓女嗎，
And they said, Should he deal with our sister as with an harlot?




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第35 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


35:1    神對雅各說，起來。上伯特利去，住在那裡。要在那裡築一座壇給神，就是你逃避你哥哥以掃的時候向你顯現的那位。
And God said unto Jacob, Arise, go up to Bethel, and dwell there: and make there an altar unto God, that appeared unto thee when thou fleddest from the face of Esau thy brother.

35:2    雅各就對他家中的人並一切與他同在的人說，你們要除掉你們中間的外邦神，也要自潔，更換衣裳。
Then Jacob said unto his household, and to all that were with him, Put away the strange gods that are among you, and be clean, and change your garments:

35:3    我們要起來，上伯特利去，在那裡我要築一座壇給神，就是在我遭難的日子應允我的禱告，在我行的路上保佑我的那位。
And let us arise, and go up to Bethel; and I will make there an altar unto God, who answered me in the day of my distress, and was with me in the way which I went.

35:4    他們就把外邦人的神像和他們耳朵上的環子交給雅各。雅各都藏在示劍那裡的橡樹底下。
And they gave unto Jacob all the strange gods which were in their hand, and all their earrings which were in their ears; and Jacob hid them under the oak which was by Shechem.

35:5    他們便起行前往。神使那周圍城邑的人都甚驚懼，就不追趕雅各的眾子了。
And they journeyed: and the terror of God was upon the cities that were round about them, and they did not pursue after the sons of Jacob.

35:6    於是雅各和一切與他同在的人到了迦南地的路斯，就是伯特利。
So Jacob came to Luz, which is in the land of Canaan, that is, Bethel, he and all the people that were with him.

35:7    他在那裡築了一座壇，就給那地方起名叫伊勒伯特利（就是伯特利之神的意思），因為他逃避他哥哥的時候，神在那裡向他顯現。
And he built there an altar, and called the place Elbethel: because there God appeared unto him, when he fled from the face of his brother.

35:8    利百加的奶母底波拉死了，就葬在伯特利下邊橡樹底下。那棵樹名叫亞倫巴古。
But Deborah Rebekah's nurse died, and she was buried beneath Bethel under an oak: and the name of it was called Allonbachuth.

35:9    雅各從巴旦亞蘭回來，神又向他顯現，賜福與他，
And God appeared unto Jacob again, when he came out of Padanaram, and blessed him.

35:10    且對他說，你的名原是雅各，從今以後不要再叫雅各，要叫以色列。這樣，他就改名叫以色列。
And God said unto him, Thy name is Jacob: thy name shall not be called any more Jacob, but Israel shall be thy name: and he called his name Israel.

35:11    神又對他說，我是全能的神。你要生養眾多，將來有一族和多國的民從你而生，又有君王從你而出。
And God said unto him, I am God Almighty: be fruitful and multiply; a nation and a company of nations shall be of thee, and kings shall come out of thy loins;

35:12    我所賜給亞伯拉罕和以撒的地，我要賜給你與你的後裔。
And the land which I gave Abraham and Isaac, to thee I will give it, and to thy seed after thee will I give the land.

35:13    神就從那與雅各說話的地方升上去了。
And God went up from him in the place where he talked with him.

35:14    雅各便在那裡立了一根石柱，在柱子上奠酒，澆油。
And Jacob set up a pillar in the place where he talked with him, even a pillar of stone: and he poured a drink offering thereon, and he poured oil thereon.

35:15    雅各就給那地方起名叫伯特利。
And Jacob called the name of the place where God spake with him, Bethel.

35:16    他們從伯特利起行，離以法他還有一段路程，拉結臨產甚是艱難。
And they journeyed from Bethel; and there was but a little way to come to Ephrath: and Rachel travailed, and she had hard labour.

35:17    正在艱難的時候，收生婆對她說，不要怕，你又要得一個兒子了。
And it came to pass, when she was in hard labour, that the midwife said unto her, Fear not; thou shalt have this son also.

35:18    她將近於死，靈魂要走的時候，就給她兒子起名叫便俄尼。他父親卻給他起名叫便雅憫。
And it came to pass, as her soul was in departing, (for she died) that she called his name Benoni: but his father called him Benjamin.

35:19    拉結死了，葬在以法他的路旁。以法他就是伯利恆。
And Rachel died, and was buried in the way to Ephrath, which is Bethlehem.

35:20    雅各在她的墳上立了一統碑，就是拉結的墓碑，到今日還在。
And Jacob set a pillar upon her grave: that is the pillar of Rachel's grave unto this day.

35:21    以色列起行前往，在以得臺那邊支搭帳棚。
And Israel journeyed, and spread his tent beyond the tower of Edar.

35:22    以色列住在那地的時候，流便去與他父親的妾闢拉同寢，以色列也聽見了。雅各共有十二個兒子。
And it came to pass, when Israel dwelt in that land, that Reuben went and lay with Bilhah his father's concubine: and Israel heard it. Now the sons of Jacob were twelve:

35:23    利亞所生的是雅各的長子流便，還有西緬，利未，猶大，以薩迦，西布倫。
The sons of Leah; Reuben, Jacob's firstborn, and Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Zebulun:

35:24    拉結所生的是約瑟，便雅憫。
The sons of Rachel; Joseph, and Benjamin:

35:25    拉結的使女闢拉所生的是但，拿弗他利。
And the sons of Bilhah, Rachel's handmaid; Dan, and Naphtali:

35:26    利亞的使女悉帕所生的是迦得，亞設。這是雅各在巴旦亞蘭所生的兒子。
And the sons of Zilpah, Leah's handmaid; Gad, and Asher: these are the sons of Jacob, which were born to him in Padanaram.

35:27    雅各來到他父親以撒那裡，到了基列亞巴的幔利，乃是亞伯拉罕和以撒寄居的地方。基列亞巴就是希伯侖。
And Jacob came unto Isaac his father unto Mamre, unto the city of Arbah, which is Hebron, where Abraham and Isaac sojourned.

35:28    以撒共活了一百八十歲。
And the days of Isaac were an hundred and fourscore years.

35:29    以撒年紀老邁，日子滿足，氣絕而死，歸到他列祖（原文作本民）那裡。他兩個兒子以掃，雅各把他埋葬了。
And Isaac gave up the ghost, and died, and was gathered unto his people, being old and full of days: and his sons Esau and Jacob buried him.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第36 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


36:1    以掃就是以東，他的後代記在下面。
Now these are the generations of Esau, who is Edom.

36:2    以掃娶迦南的女子為妻，就是赫人以倫的女兒亞大和希未人祭便的孫女，亞拿的女兒阿何利巴瑪，
Esau took his wives of the daughters of Canaan; Adah the daughter of Elon the Hittite, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon the Hivite;

36:3    又娶了以實瑪利的女兒，尼拜約的妹子巴實抹。
And Bashemath Ishmael's daughter, sister of Nebajoth.

36:4    亞大給以掃生了以利法。巴實抹生了流珥。
And Adah bare to Esau Eliphaz; and Bashemath bare Reuel;

36:5    阿何利巴瑪生了耶烏施，雅蘭，可拉。這都是以掃的兒子，是在迦南地生的。
And Aholibamah bare Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah: these are the sons of Esau, which were born unto him in the land of Canaan.

36:6    以掃帶著他的妻子，兒女，與家中一切的人口，並他的牛羊，牲畜，和一切貨財，就是他在迦南地所得的，往別處去，離了他兄弟雅各。
And Esau took his wives, and his sons, and his daughters, and all the persons of his house, and his cattle, and all his beasts, and all his substance, which he had got in the land of Canaan; and went into the country from the face of his brother Jacob.

36:7    因為二人的財物群畜甚多，寄居的地方容不下他們，所以不能同居。
For their riches were more than that they might dwell together; and the land wherein they were strangers could not bear them because of their cattle.

36:8    於是以掃住在西珥山裡。以掃就是以東。
Thus dwelt Esau in mount Seir: Esau is Edom.

36:9    以掃是西珥山裡以東人的始祖，他的後代記在下面。
And these are the generations of Esau the father of the Edomites in mount Seir:

36:10    以掃眾子的名字如下。以掃的妻子亞大生以利法。以掃的妻子巴實抹生流珥。
These are the names of Esau's sons; Eliphaz the son of Adah the wife of Esau, Reuel the son of Bashemath the wife of Esau.

36:11    以利法的兒子是毯螅，阿抹，洗玻，迦坦，基納斯。
And the sons of Eliphaz were Teman, Omar, Zepho, and Gatam, and Kenaz.

36:12    亭納是以掃兒子以利法的妾。她給以利法生了亞瑪力。這是以掃的妻子亞大的子孫。
And Timna was concubine to Eliphaz Esau's son; and she bare to Eliphaz Amalek: these were the sons of Adah Esau's wife.

36:13    流珥的兒子是拿哈，謝拉，沙瑪，米撒。這是以掃妻子巴實抹的子孫。
And these are the sons of Reuel; Nahath, and Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah: these were the sons of Bashemath Esau's wife.

36:14    以掃的妻子阿何利巴瑪是祭便的孫女，亞拿的女兒。她給以掃生了耶烏施，雅蘭，可拉。
And these were the sons of Aholibamah, the daughter of Anah the daughter of Zibeon, Esau's wife: and she bare to Esau Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah.

36:15    以掃子孫中作族長的記在下面。以掃的長子以利法的子孫中，有毯螅族長，阿抹族長，洗玻族長，基納斯族長，
These were dukes of the sons of Esau: the sons of Eliphaz the firstborn son of Esau; duke Teman, duke Omar, duke Zepho, duke Kenaz,



36:16    可拉族長，迦坦族長，亞瑪力族長。這是在以東地從以利法所出的族長，都是亞大的子孫。
Duke Korah, duke Gatam, and duke Amalek: these are the dukes that came of Eliphaz in the land of Edom; these were the sons of Adah.

36:17    以掃的兒子流珥的子孫中，有拿哈族長，謝拉族長，沙瑪族長，米撒族長。這是在以東地從流珥所出的族長，都是以掃妻子巴實抹的子孫。
And these are the sons of Reuel Esau's son; duke Nahath, duke Zerah, duke Shammah, duke Mizzah: these are the dukes that came of Reuel in the land of Edom; these are the sons of Bashemath Esau's wife.

36:18    以掃的妻子阿何利巴瑪的子孫中，有耶烏施族長，雅蘭族長，可拉族長。這是從以掃妻子，亞拿的女兒，阿何利巴瑪子孫中所出的族長。
And these are the sons of Aholibamah Esau's wife; duke Jeush, duke Jaalam, duke Korah: these were the dukes that came of Aholibamah the daughter of Anah, Esau's wife.

36:19    以上的族長都是以掃的子孫。以掃就是以東。
These are the sons of Esau, who is Edom, and these are their dukes.

36:20    那地原有的居民何利人西珥的子孫記在下面，就是羅坍，朔巴，祭便，亞拿，
These are the sons of Seir the Horite, who inhabited the land; Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah,

36:21    底順，以察，底珊。這是從以東地的何利人西珥子孫中所出的族長。
And Dishon, and Ezer, and Dishan: these are the dukes of the Horites, the children of Seir in the land of Edom.

36:22    羅坍的兒子是何利，希幔。羅坍的妹子是亭納。
And the children of Lotan were Hori and Hemam; and Lotan's sister was Timna.

36:23    朔巴的兒子是亞勒文，瑪拿轄，以巴錄，示玻，阿南。
And the children of Shobal were these; Alvan, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shepho, and Onam.

36:24    祭便的兒子是亞雅，亞拿（當時在曠野放他父親祭便的驢，遇著溫泉的，就是這亞拿）。
And these are the children of Zibeon; both Ajah, and Anah: this was that Anah that found the mules in the wilderness, as he fed the asses of Zibeon his father.

36:25    亞拿的兒子是底順。亞拿的女兒是阿何利巴瑪。
And the children of Anah were these; Dishon, and Aholibamah the daughter of Anah.

36:26    底順的兒子是欣但，伊是班，益蘭，基蘭。
And these are the children of Dishon; Hemdan, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.

36:27    以察的兒子是闢罕，撒番，亞幹。
The children of Ezer are these; Bilhan, and Zaavan, and Akan.

36:28    底珊的兒子是烏斯，亞蘭。
The children of Dishan are these; Uz, and Aran.

36:29    從何利人所出的族長記在下面，就是羅坍族長，朔巴族長，祭便族長，亞拿族長，
These are the dukes that came of the Horites; duke Lotan, duke Shobal, duke Zibeon, duke Anah,

36:30    底順族長，以察族長，底珊族長。這是從何利人所出的族長，都在西珥地，按著宗族作族長。
Duke Dishon, duke Ezer, duke Dishan: these are the dukes that came of Hori, among their dukes in the land of Seir.

36:31    以色列人未有君王治理以先，在以東地作王的記在下面。
And these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom, before there reigned any king over the children of Israel.

36:32    比珥的兒子比拉在以東作王，他的京城名叫亭哈巴。
And Bela the son of Beor reigned in Edom: and the name of his city was Dinhabah.

36:33    比拉死了，波斯拉人謝拉的兒子約巴接續他作王。
And Bela died, and Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead.

36:34    約巴死了，毯螅地的人戶珊接續他作王。
And Jobab died, and Husham of the land of Temani reigned in his stead.

36:35    戶珊死了，比達的兒子哈達接續他作王。這哈達就是在摩押地殺敗米甸人的，他的京城名叫亞未得。
And Husham died, and Hadad the son of Bedad, who smote Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Avith.

36:36    哈達死了，瑪士利加人桑拉接續他作王。
And Hadad died, and Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead.

36:37    桑拉死了，大河邊的利河伯人掃羅接續他作王。
And Samlah died, and Saul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in his stead.

36:38    掃羅死了，亞革波的兒子巴勒哈南接續他作王。
And Saul died, and Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead.

36:39    亞革波的兒子巴勒哈南死了，哈達接續他作王，他的京城名叫巴烏。他的妻子名叫米希她別，是米薩合的孫女，瑪特列的女兒。
And Baalhanan the son of Achbor died, and Hadar reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Pau; and his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.

36:40    從以掃所出的族長，按著他們的宗族，住處，名字記在下面，就是亭納族長，亞勒瓦族長，耶帖族長，
And these are the names of the dukes that came of Esau, according to their families, after their places, by their names; duke Timnah, duke Alvah, duke Jetheth,

36:41    阿何利巴瑪族長，以拉族長，比嫩族長，
Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinon,

36:42    基納斯族長，毯螅族長，米比薩族長，
Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar,

36:43    瑪基疊族長，以蘭族長。這是以東人在所得為業的地上，按著他們的住處，所有的族長都是以東人的始祖以掃的後代。
Duke Magdiel, duke Iram: these be the dukes of Edom, according to their habitations in the land of their possession: he is Esau the father of the Edomites.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第37 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


37:1    雅各住在迦南地，就是他父親寄居的地。
And Jacob dwelt in the land wherein his father was a stranger, in the land of Canaan.

37:2    雅各的記略如下。約瑟十七歲與他哥哥們一同牧羊。他是個童子，與他父親的妾闢拉，悉帕的兒子們常在一處。約瑟將他哥哥們的惡行報給他們的父親。
These are the generations of Jacob. Joseph, being seventeen years old, was feeding the flock with his brethren; and the lad was with the sons of Bilhah, and with the sons of Zilpah, his father's wives: and Joseph brought unto his father their evil report.

37:3    以色列原來愛約瑟過於愛他的眾子，因為約瑟是他年老生的。他給約瑟作了一件綵衣。
Now Israel loved Joseph more than all his children, because he was the son of his old age: and he made him a coat of many colours.

37:4    約瑟的哥哥們見父親愛約瑟過於愛他們，就恨約瑟，不與他說和睦的話。
And when his brethren saw that their father loved him more than all his brethren, they hated him, and could not speak peaceably unto him.

37:5    約瑟作了一夢，告訴他哥哥們，他們就越發恨他。
And Joseph dreamed a dream, and he told it his brethren: and they hated him yet the more.

37:6    約瑟對他們說，請聽我所作的夢，
And he said unto them, Hear, I pray you, this dream which I have dreamed:

37:7    我們在田裡捆禾稼，我的捆起來站著，你們的捆來圍著我的捆下拜。
For, behold, we were binding sheaves in the field, and, lo, my sheaf arose, and also stood upright; and, behold, your sheaves stood round about, and made obeisance to my sheaf.

37:8    他的哥哥們回答說，難道你真要作我們的王嗎。難道你真要管轄我們嗎，他們就因為他的夢和他的話越發恨他。
And his brethren said to him, Shalt thou indeed reign over us? or shalt thou indeed have dominion over us? And they hated him yet the more for his dreams, and for his words.

37:9    後來他又作了一夢，也告訴他的哥哥們說，看哪，我又作了一夢，夢見太陽，月亮，與十一個星向我下拜。
And he dreamed yet another dream, and told it his brethren, and said, Behold, I have dreamed a dream more; and, behold, the sun and the moon and the eleven stars made obeisance to me.

37:10    約瑟將這夢告訴他父親和他哥哥們，他父親就責備他說，你作的這是什麼夢。難道我和你母親，你弟兄果然要來俯伏在地，向你下拜嗎，
And he told it to his father, and to his brethren: and his father rebuked him, and said unto him, What is this dream that thou hast dreamed? Shall I and thy mother and thy brethren indeed come to bow down ourselves to thee to the earth?

37:11    他哥哥們都嫉妒他，他父親卻把這話存在心裡。
And his brethren envied him; but his father observed the saying.

37:12    約瑟的哥哥們往示劍去放他們父親的羊。
And his brethren went to feed their father's flock in Shechem.

37:13    以色列對約瑟說，你哥哥們不是在示劍放羊嗎。你來，我要打發你往他們那裡去。約瑟說，我在這裡。
And Israel said unto Joseph, Do not thy brethren feed the flock in Shechem? come, and I will send thee unto them. And he said to him, Here am I.

37:14    以色列說，你去看看你哥哥們平安不平安，群羊平安不平安，就回來報信給我。於是打發他出希伯侖谷，他就往示劍去了。
And he said to him, Go, I pray thee, see whether it be well with thy brethren, and well with the flocks; and bring me word again. So he sent him out of the vale of Hebron, and he came to Shechem.

37:15    有人遇見他在田野走迷了路，就問他說，你找什麼，
And a certain man found him, and, behold, he was wandering in the field: and the man asked him, saying, What seekest thou?

37:16    他說，我找我的哥哥們，求你告訴我，他們在何處放羊。
And he said, I seek my brethren: tell me, I pray thee, where they feed their flocks.

37:17    那人說，他們已經走了，我聽見他們說要往多坍去。約瑟就去追趕他哥哥們，遇見他們在多坍。
And the man said, They are departed hence; for I heard them say, Let us go to Dothan. And Joseph went after his brethren, and found them in Dothan.

37:18    他們遠遠地看見他，趁他還沒有走到跟前，大家就同謀要害死他，
And when they saw him afar off, even before he came near unto them, they conspired against him to slay him.

37:19    彼此說，你看。那作夢的來了。
And they said one to another, Behold, this dreamer cometh.

37:20    來吧。我們將他殺了，丟在一個坑裡，就說有惡獸把他吃了。我們且看他的夢將來怎嗎樣。
Come now therefore, and let us slay him, and cast him into some pit, and we will say, Some evil beast hath devoured him: and we shall see what will become of his dreams.

37:21    流便聽見了，要救他脫離他們的手，說，我們不可害他的性命。
And Reuben heard it, and he delivered him out of their hands; and said, Let us not kill him.

37:22    又說，不可流他的血，可以把他丟在這野地的坑裡，不可下手害他。流便的意思是要救他脫離他們的手，把他歸還他的父親。
And Reuben said unto them, Shed no blood, but cast him into this pit that is in the wilderness, and lay no hand upon him; that he might rid him out of their hands, to deliver him to his father again.

37:23    約瑟到了他哥哥們那裡，他們就剝了他的外衣，，就是他穿的那件綵衣，
And it came to pass, when Joseph was come unto his brethren, that they stript Joseph out of his coat, his coat of many colours that was on him;

37:24    把他丟在坑裡。那坑是空的，裡頭沒有水。
And they took him, and cast him into a pit: and the pit was empty, there was no water in it.

37:25    他們坐下吃飯，舉目觀看，見有一夥米甸的以實瑪利人從基列來，用駱駝馱著香料，乳香，沒藥，要帶下埃及去。
And they sat down to eat bread: and they lifted up their eyes and looked, and, behold, a company of Ishmeelites came from Gilead with their camels bearing spicery and balm and myrrh, going to carry it down to Egypt.

37:26    猶大對眾弟兄說，我們殺我們的兄弟，藏了他的血有什麼益處呢。
And Judah said unto his brethren, What profit is it if we slay our brother, and conceal his blood?

37:27    我們不如將他賣給以實瑪利人，不可下手害他。因為他是我們的兄弟，我們的骨肉。眾弟兄就聽從了他。
Come, and let us sell him to the Ishmeelites, and let not our hand be upon him; for he is our brother and our flesh. And his brethren were content.

37:28    有些米甸的商人從那裡經過，哥哥們就把約瑟從坑裡拉上來，講定二十舍客勒銀子，把約瑟賣給以實瑪利人。他們就把約瑟帶到埃及去了。
Then there passed by Midianites merchantmen; and they drew and lifted up Joseph out of the pit, and sold Joseph to the Ishmeelites for twenty pieces of silver: and they brought Joseph into Egypt.

37:29    流便回到坑邊，見約瑟不在坑裡，就撕裂衣服，
And Reuben returned unto the pit; and, behold, Joseph was not in the pit; and he rent his clothes.

37:30    回到兄弟們那裡，說，童子沒有了。我往哪裡去才好呢，
And he returned unto his brethren, and said, The child is not; and I, whither shall I go?

37:31    他們宰了一隻公山羊，把約瑟的那件綵衣染了血，
And they took Joseph's coat, and killed a kid of the goats, and dipped the coat in the blood;

37:32    打發人送到他們的父親那裡，說，我們撿了這個。請認一認是你兒子的外衣不是，
And they sent the coat of many colours, and they brought it to their father; and said, This have we found: know now whether it be thy son's coat or no.

37:33    他認得，就說，這是我兒子的外衣。有惡獸把他吃了，約瑟被撕碎了。撕碎了。
And he knew it, and said, It is my son's coat; an evil beast hath devoured him; Joseph is without doubt rent in pieces.

37:34    雅各便撕裂衣服，腰間圍上麻布，為他兒子悲哀了多日。
And Jacob rent his clothes, and put sackcloth upon his loins, and mourned for his son many days.

37:35    他的兒女都起來安慰他，他卻不肯受安慰，說，我必悲哀著下陰間，到我兒子那裡。約瑟的父親就為他哀哭。
And all his sons and all his daughters rose up to comfort him; but he refused to be comforted; and he said, For I will go down into the grave unto my son mourning. Thus his father wept for him.

37:36    米甸人帶約瑟到埃及，把他賣給法老的內臣護衛長波提乏。
And the Midianites sold him into Egypt unto Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh's, and captain of the guard.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第38 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


38:1    那時，猶大離開他弟兄下去，到一個亞杜蘭人名叫希拉的家裡去。
And it came to pass at that time, that Judah went down from his brethren, and turned in to a certain Adullamite, whose name was Hirah.

38:2    猶大在那裡看見一個迦南人名叫書亞的女兒，就娶她為妻，與她同房，
And Judah saw there a daughter of a certain Canaanite, whose name was Shuah; and he took her, and went in unto her.

38:3    她就懷孕生了兒子，猶大給他起名叫珥。
And she conceived, and bare a son; and he called his name Er.

38:4    她又懷孕生了兒子，母親給他起名叫俄南。
And she conceived again, and bare a son; and she called his name Onan.

38:5    她復又生了兒子，給他起名叫示拉。她生示拉的時候，猶大正在基悉。
And she yet again conceived, and bare a son; and called his name Shelah: and he was at Chezib, when she bare him.

38:6    猶大為長子珥娶妻，名叫他瑪。
And Judah took a wife for Er his firstborn, whose name was Tamar.

38:7    猶大的長子珥在耶和華眼中看為惡，耶和華就叫他死了。
And Er, Judah's firstborn, was wicked in the sight of the LORD; and the LORD slew him.

38:8    猶大對俄南說，你當與你哥哥的妻子同房，向她盡你為弟的本分，為你哥哥生子立後。
And Judah said unto Onan, Go in unto thy brother's wife, and marry her, and raise up seed to thy brother.

38:9    俄南知道生子不歸自己，所以同房的時候便遺在地，免得給他哥哥留後。
And Onan knew that the seed should not be his; and it came to pass, when he went in unto his brother's wife, that he spilled it on the ground, lest that he should give seed to his brother.

38:10    俄南所作的在耶和華眼中看為惡，耶和華也就叫他死了。
And the thing which he did displeased the LORD: wherefore he slew him also.

38:11    猶大心裡說，恐怕示拉也死，像他兩個哥哥一樣，就對他兒婦他瑪說，你去，在你父親家裡守寡，等我兒子示拉長大。他瑪就回去，住在她父親家裡。
Then said Judah to Tamar his daughter in law, Remain a widow at thy father's house, till Shelah my son be grown: for he said, Lest peradventure he die also, as his brethren did. And Tamar went and dwelt in her father's house.

38:12    過了許久，猶大的妻子書亞的女兒死了。猶大得了安慰，就和他朋友亞杜蘭人希拉上亭拿去，到他剪羊毛的人那裡。
And in process of time the daughter of Shuah Judah's wife died; and Judah was comforted, and went up unto his sheepshearers to Timnath, he and his friend Hirah the Adullamite.

38:13    有人告訴他瑪說，你的公公上亭拿剪羊毛去了。
And it was told Tamar, saying, Behold thy father in law goeth up to Timnath to shear his sheep.

38:14    他瑪見示拉已經長大，還沒有娶她為妻，就脫了她作寡婦的衣裳，用帕子蒙著臉，又遮住身體，坐在亭拿路上的伊拿印城門口。
And she put her widow's garments off from her, and covered her with a vail, and wrapped herself, and sat in an open place, which is by the way to Timnath; for she saw that Shelah was grown, and she was not given unto him to wife.

38:15    猶大看見她，以為是妓女，因為她蒙著臉。
When Judah saw her, he thought her to be an harlot; because she had covered her face.

38:16    猶大就轉到她那裡去，說，來吧。讓我與你同寢。他原不知道是他的兒婦。他瑪說，你要與我同寢，把什麼給我呢，
And he turned unto her by the way, and said, Go to, I pray thee, let me come in unto thee; (for he knew not that she was his daughter in law.) And she said, What wilt thou give me, that thou mayest come in unto me?

38:17    猶大說，我從羊群裡取一隻山羊羔，打發人送來給你。他瑪說，在未送以先，你願意給我一個當頭嗎，
And he said, I will send thee a kid from the flock. And she said, Wilt thou give me a pledge, till thou send it?

38:18    他說，我給你什麼當頭呢，他瑪說，你的印，你的帶子，和你手裡的杖。猶大就給了她，與她同寢，她就從猶大懷了孕。
And he said, What pledge shall I give thee? And she said, Thy signet, and thy bracelets, and thy staff that is in thine hand. And he gave it her, and came in unto her, and she conceived by him.

38:19    他瑪起來走了，除去帕子，仍舊穿上作寡婦的衣裳。
And she arose, and went away, and laid by her vail from her, and put on the garments of her widowhood.

38:20    猶大託他朋友亞杜蘭人送一隻山羊羔去，要從那女人手裡取回當頭來，卻找不著她。
And Judah sent the kid by the hand of his friend the Adullamite, to receive his pledge from the woman's hand: but he found her not.

38:21    就問那地方的人說，伊拿印路旁的妓女在哪裡，他們說，這裡並沒有妓女。
Then he asked the men of that place, saying, Where is the harlot, that was openly by the way side? And they said, There was no harlot in this place.

38:22    他回去見猶大說，我沒有找著她，並且那地方的人說，這裡沒有妓女。
And he returned to Judah, and said, I cannot find her; and also the men of the place said, that there was no harlot in this place.

38:23    猶大說，我把這山羊羔送去了，你竟找不著她。任憑她拿去吧，免得我們被羞辱。
And Judah said, Let her take it to her, lest we be shamed: behold, I sent this kid, and thou hast not found her.

38:24    約過了三個月，有人告訴猶大說，你的兒婦他瑪作了妓女，且因行淫有了身孕。猶大說，拉出她來，把她燒了。
And it came to pass about three months after, that it was told Judah, saying, Tamar thy daughter in law hath played the harlot; and also, behold, she is with child by whoredom. And Judah said, Bring her forth, and let her be burnt.

38:25    他瑪被拉出來的時候便打發人去見她公公，對他說，這些東西是誰的，我就是從誰懷的孕。請你認一認，這印和帶子並杖都是誰的，
When she was brought forth, she sent to her father in law, saying, By the man, whose these are, am I with child: and she said, Discern, I pray thee, whose are these, the signet, and bracelets, and staff.

38:26    猶大承認說，她比我更有義，因為我沒有將她給我的兒子示拉。從此猶大不再與她同寢了。
And Judah acknowledged them, and said, She hath been more righteous than I; because that I gave her not to Shelah my son. And he knew her again no more.

38:27    他瑪將要生產，不料她腹裡是一對雙生。
And it came to pass in the time of her travail, that, behold, twins were in her womb.

38:28    到生產的時候，一個孩子伸出一隻手來。收生婆拿紅線拴在他手上，說，這是頭生的。
And it came to pass, when she travailed, that the one put out his hand: and the midwife took and bound upon his hand a scarlet thread, saying, This came out first.

38:29    隨後這孩子把手收回去，他哥哥生出來了。收生婆說，你為什麼搶著來呢，因此給他起名叫法勒斯。
And it came to pass, as he drew back his hand, that, behold, his brother came out: and she said, How hast thou broken forth? this breach be upon thee: therefore his name was called Pharez.

38:30    後來，他兄弟那手上有紅線的也生出來，就給他起名叫謝拉。
And afterward came out his brother, that had the scarlet thread upon his hand: and his name was called Zarah.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第39 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


39:1    約瑟被帶下埃及去。有一個埃及人，是法老的內臣，護衛長波提乏，從那些帶下他來的以實瑪利人手下買了他去。
And Joseph was brought down to Egypt; and Potiphar, an officer of Pharaoh, captain of the guard, an Egyptian, bought him of the hands of the Ishmeelites, which had brought him down thither.

39:2    約瑟住在他主人埃及人的家中，耶和華與他同在，他就百事順利。
And the LORD was with Joseph, and he was a prosperous man; and he was in the house of his master the Egyptian.

39:3    他主人見耶和華與他同在，又見耶和華使他手裡所辦的盡都順利，
And his master saw that the LORD was with him, and that the LORD made all that he did to prosper in his hand.

39:4    約瑟就在主人眼前蒙恩，伺候他主人，並且主人派他管理家務，把一切所有的都交在他手裡。
And Joseph found grace in his sight, and he served him: and he made him overseer over his house, and all that he had he put into his hand.

39:5    自從主人派約瑟管理家務和他一切所有的，耶和華就因約瑟的緣故賜福與那埃及人的家。凡家裡和田間一切所有的都蒙耶和華賜福。
And it came to pass from the time that he had made him overseer in his house, and over all that he had, that the LORD blessed the Egyptian's house for Joseph's sake; and the blessing of the LORD was upon all that he had in the house, and in the field.

39:6    波提乏將一切所有的都交在約瑟的手中，除了自己所吃的飯，別的事一概不知。約瑟原來秀雅俊美。
And he left all that he had in Joseph's hand; and he knew not ought he had, save the bread which he did eat. And Joseph was a goodly person, and well favoured.

39:7    這事以後，約瑟主人的妻以目送情給約瑟，說，你與我同寢吧。
And it came to pass after these things, that his master's wife cast her eyes upon Joseph; and she said, Lie with me.

39:8    約瑟不從，對他主人的妻說，看哪，一切家務，我主人都不知道。他把所有的都交在我手裡。
But he refused, and said unto his master's wife, Behold, my master wotteth not what is with me in the house, and he hath committed all that he hath to my hand;

39:9    在這家裡沒有比我大的。並且他沒有留下一樣不交給我，只留下了你，因為你是他的妻子。我怎能作這大惡，得罪神呢，
There is none greater in this house than I; neither hath he kept back any thing from me but thee, because thou art his wife: how then can I do this great wickedness, and sin against God?

39:10    後來她天天和約瑟說，約瑟卻不聽從她，不與她同寢，也不和她在一處。
And it came to pass, as she spake to Joseph day by day, that he hearkened not unto her, to lie by her, or to be with her.

39:11    有一天，約瑟進屋裡去辦事，家中人沒有一個在那屋裡，
And it came to pass about this time, that Joseph went into the house to do his business; and there was none of the men of the house there within.

39:12    婦人就拉住他的衣裳，說，你與我同寢吧。約瑟把衣裳丟在婦人手裡，跑到外邊去了。
And she caught him by his garment, saying, Lie with me: and he left his garment in her hand, and fled, and got him out.

39:13    婦人看見約瑟把衣裳丟在她手裡跑出去了，
And it came to pass, when she saw that he had left his garment in her hand, and was fled forth,

39:14    就叫了家裡的人來，對他們說，你們看。他帶了一個希伯來人進入我們家裡，要戲弄我們。他到我這裡來，要與我同寢，我就大聲喊叫。
That she called unto the men of her house, and spake unto them, saying, See, he hath brought in an Hebrew unto us to mock us; he came in unto me to lie with me, and I cried with a loud voice:

39:15    他聽見我放聲喊起來，就把衣裳丟在我這裡，跑到外邊去了。
And it came to pass, when he heard that I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and fled, and got him out.

39:16    婦人把約瑟的衣裳放在自己那裡，等著他主人回家，
And she laid up his garment by her, until his lord came home.

39:17    就對他如此如此說，你所帶到我們這裡的那希伯來僕人進來要戲弄我，
And she spake unto him according to these words, saying, The Hebrew servant, which thou hast brought unto us, came in unto me to mock me:

39:18    我放聲喊起來，他就把衣裳丟在我這裡，跑出去了。
And it came to pass, as I lifted up my voice and cried, that he left his garment with me, and fled out.

39:19    約瑟的主人聽見他妻子對他所說的話，說，你的僕人如此如此待我，他就生氣，
And it came to pass, when his master heard the words of his wife, which she spake unto him, saying, After this manner did thy servant to me; that his wrath was kindled.

39:20    把約瑟下在監裡，就是王的囚犯被囚的地方。於是約瑟在那裡坐監。
And Joseph's master took him, and put him into the prison, a place where the king's prisoners were bound: and he was there in the prison.

39:21    但耶和華與約瑟同在，向他施恩，使他在司獄的眼前蒙恩。
But the LORD was with Joseph, and shewed him mercy, and gave him favour in the sight of the keeper of the prison.

39:22    司獄就把監裡所有的囚犯都交在約瑟手下。他們在那裡所辦的事都是經他的手。
And the keeper of the prison committed to Joseph's hand all the prisoners that were in the prison; and whatsoever they did there, he was the doer of it.

39:23    凡在約瑟手下的事，司獄一概不察，因為耶和華與約瑟同在。耶和華使他所作的盡都順利。
The keeper of the prison looked not to any thing that was under his hand; because the LORD was with him, and that which he did, the LORD made it to prosper.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第40 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


40:1    這事以後，埃及王的酒政和膳長得罪了他們的主埃及王，
And it came to pass after these things, that the butler of the king of Egypt and his baker had offended their lord the king of Egypt.

40:2    法老就惱怒酒政和膳長這二臣，
And Pharaoh was wroth against two of his officers, against the chief of the butlers, and against the chief of the bakers.

40:3    把他們下在護衛長府內的監裡，就是約瑟被囚的地方。
And he put them in ward in the house of the captain of the guard, into the prison, the place where Joseph was bound.

40:4    護衛長把他們交給約瑟，約瑟便伺候他們。他們有些日子在監裡。
And the captain of the guard charged Joseph with them, and he served them: and they continued a season in ward.

40:5    被囚在監之埃及王的酒政和膳長二人同夜各作一夢，各夢都有講解。
And they dreamed a dream both of them, each man his dream in one night, each man according to the interpretation of his dream, the butler and the baker of the king of Egypt, which were bound in the prison.

40:6    到了早晨，約瑟進到他們那裡，見他們有愁悶的樣子。
And Joseph came in unto them in the morning, and looked upon them, and, behold, they were sad.

40:7    他便問法老的二臣，就是與他同囚在他主人府裡的，說，他們今日為什麼面帶愁容呢，
And he asked Pharaoh's officers that were with him in the ward of his lord's house, saying, Wherefore look ye so sadly to day?

40:8    他們對他說，我們各人作了一夢，沒有人能解。約瑟說，解夢不是出於神嗎。請你們將夢告訴我。
And they said unto him, We have dreamed a dream, and there is no interpreter of it. And Joseph said unto them, Do not interpretations belong to God? tell me them, I pray you.

40:9    酒政便將他的夢告訴約瑟說，我夢見在我面前有一棵葡萄樹，
And the chief butler told his dream to Joseph, and said to him, In my dream, behold, a vine was before me;

40:10    樹上有三根枝子，好像發了芽，開了花，上頭的葡萄都成熟了。
And in the vine were three branches: and it was as though it budded, and her blossoms shot forth; and the clusters thereof brought forth ripe grapes:

40:11    法老的杯在我手中，我就拿葡萄擠在法老的杯裡，將杯遞在他手中。
And Pharaoh's cup was in my hand: and I took the grapes, and pressed them into Pharaoh's cup, and I gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand.

40:12    約瑟對他說，他所作的夢是這樣解，三根枝子就是三天。
And Joseph said unto him, This is the interpretation of it: The three branches are three days:

40:13    三天之內，法老必提你出監，叫你官復原職，你仍要遞杯在法老的手中，和先前作他的酒政一樣。
Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thine head, and restore thee unto thy place: and thou shalt deliver Pharaoh's cup into his hand, after the former manner when thou wast his butler.

40:14    但你得好處的時候，求你記念我，施恩與我，在法老面前提說我，救我出這監牢。
But think on me when it shall be well with thee, and shew kindness, I pray thee, unto me, and make mention of me unto Pharaoh, and bring me out of this house:

40:15    我實在是從希伯來人之地被拐來的。我在這裡也沒有作過什麼，叫他們把我下在監裡。
For indeed I was stolen away out of the land of the Hebrews: and here also have I done nothing that they should put me into the dungeon.

40:16    膳長見夢解得好，就對約瑟說，我在夢中見我頭上頂著三筐白餅。
When the chief baker saw that the interpretation was good, he said unto Joseph, I also was in my dream, and, behold, I had three white baskets on my head:

40:17    極上的筐子裡有為法老烤的各樣食物，有飛鳥來吃我頭上筐子裡的食物。
And in the uppermost basket there was of all manner of bakemeats for Pharaoh; and the birds did eat them out of the basket upon my head.

40:18    約瑟說，你的夢是這樣解，三個筐子就是三天。
And Joseph answered and said, This is the interpretation thereof: The three baskets are three days:

40:19    三天之內，法老必斬斷你的頭，把你掛在木頭上，必有飛鳥來吃你身上的肉。
Yet within three days shall Pharaoh lift up thy head from off thee, and shall hang thee on a tree; and the birds shall eat thy flesh from off thee.

40:20    到了第三天，是法老的生日，他為眾臣僕設擺筵席，把酒政和膳長提出監來，
And it came to pass the third day, which was Pharaoh's birthday, that he made a feast unto all his servants: and he lifted up the head of the chief butler and of the chief baker among his servants.

40:21    使酒政官復原職，他仍舊遞杯在法老手中。
And he restored the chief butler unto his butlership again; and he gave the cup into Pharaoh's hand:

40:22    但把膳長掛起來，正如約瑟向他們所解的話。
But he hanged the chief baker: as Joseph had interpreted to them.

40:23    酒政卻不記念約瑟，竟忘了他。
Yet did not the chief butler remember Joseph, but forgat him.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第41 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


41:1    過了兩年，法老作夢，夢見自己站在河邊，
And it came to pass at the end of two full years, that Pharaoh dreamed: and, behold, he stood by the river.

41:2    有七隻母牛從河裡上來，又美好又肥壯，在蘆荻中吃草。
And, behold, there came up out of the river seven well favoured kine and fatfleshed; and they fed in a meadow.

41:3    隨後又有七隻母牛從河裡上來，又醜陋又乾瘦，與那七隻母牛一同站在河邊。
And, behold, seven other kine came up after them out of the river, ill favoured and leanfleshed; and stood by the other kine upon the brink of the river.

41:4    這又醜陋又乾瘦的七隻母牛吃盡了那又美好又肥壯的七隻母牛。法老就醒了。
And the ill favoured and leanfleshed kine did eat up the seven well favoured and fat kine. So Pharaoh awoke.

41:5    他又睡著，第二回作夢，夢見一棵麥子長了七個穗子，又肥大又佳美，
And he slept and dreamed the second time: and, behold, seven ears of corn came up upon one stalk, rank and good.

41:6    隨後又長了七個穗子，又細弱又被東風吹焦了。
And, behold, seven thin ears and blasted with the east wind sprung up after them.

41:7    這細弱的穗子吞了那七個又肥大又飽滿的穗子。法老醒了，不料是個夢。
And the seven thin ears devoured the seven rank and full ears. And Pharaoh awoke, and, behold, it was a dream.

41:8    到了早晨，法老心裡不安，就差人召了埃及所有的術士和博士來。法老就把所作的夢告訴他們，卻沒有人能給法老圓解。
And it came to pass in the morning that his spirit was troubled; and he sent and called for all the magicians of Egypt, and all the wise men thereof: and Pharaoh told them his dream; but there was none that could interpret them unto Pharaoh.

41:9    那時酒政對法老說，我今日想起我的罪來。
Then spake the chief butler unto Pharaoh, saying, I do remember my faults this day:

41:10    從前法老惱怒臣僕，把我和膳長下在護衛長府布的監裡。
Pharaoh was wroth with his servants, and put me in ward in the captain of the guard's house, both me and the chief baker:

41:11    我們二人同夜各作一夢，各夢都有講解。
And we dreamed a dream in one night, I and he; we dreamed each man according to the interpretation of his dream.

41:12    在那裡同著我們有一個希伯來的少年人，是護衛長的僕人，我們告訴他，他就把我們的夢圓解，是按著各人的夢圓解的。
And there was there with us a young man, an Hebrew, servant to the captain of the guard; and we told him, and he interpreted to us our dreams; to each man according to his dream he did interpret.

41:13    後來正如他給我們圓解的成就了。我官復原職，膳長被掛起來了。
And it came to pass, as he interpreted to us, so it was; me he restored unto mine office, and him he hanged.

41:14    法老遂即差人去召約瑟，他們便急忙帶他出監，他就剃頭，刮臉，換衣裳，進到法老面前。
Then Pharaoh sent and called Joseph, and they brought him hastily out of the dungeon: and he shaved himself, and changed his raiment, and came in unto Pharaoh.

41:15    法老對約瑟說，我作了一夢，沒有人能解。我聽見人說，你聽了夢就能解。
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I have dreamed a dream, and there is none that can interpret it: and I have heard say of thee, that thou canst understand a dream to interpret it.

41:16    約瑟回答法老說，這不在乎我，神必將平安的話回答法老。
And Joseph answered Pharaoh, saying, It is not in me: God shall give Pharaoh an answer of peace.

41:17    法老對約瑟說，我夢見我站在河邊，
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, In my dream, behold, I stood upon the bank of the river:

41:18    有七隻母牛從河裡上來，又肥壯又美好，在蘆荻中吃草。
And, behold, there came up out of the river seven kine, fatfleshed and well favoured; and they fed in a meadow:

41:19    隨後又有七隻母牛上來，又軟弱又醜陋又乾瘦，在埃及遍地，我沒有見過這樣不好的。
And, behold, seven other kine came up after them, poor and very ill favoured and leanfleshed, such as I never saw in all the land of Egypt for badness:

41:20    這又乾瘦又醜陋的母牛吃盡了那以先的七隻肥母牛，
And the lean and the ill favoured kine did eat up the first seven fat kine:

41:21    吃了以後卻看不出是吃了，那醜陋的樣子仍舊和先前一樣。我就醒了。
And when they had eaten them up, it could not be known that they had eaten them; but they were still ill favoured, as at the beginning. So I awoke.

41:22    我又夢見一棵麥子，長了七個穗子，又飽滿又佳美，
And I saw in my dream, and, behold, seven ears came up in one stalk, full and good:

41:23    隨後又長了七個穗子，枯槁細弱，被東風吹焦了。
And, behold, seven ears, withered, thin, and blasted with the east wind, sprung up after them:

41:24    這些細弱的穗子吞了那七個佳美的穗子。我將這夢告訴了術士，卻沒有人能給我解說。
And the thin ears devoured the seven good ears: and I told this unto the magicians; but there was none that could declare it to me.

41:25    約瑟對法老說，法老的夢乃是一個。神已將所要作的事指示法老了。
And Joseph said unto Pharaoh, The dream of Pharaoh is one: God hath shewed Pharaoh what he is about to do.

41:26    七隻好母牛是七年，七個好穗子也是七年。這夢乃是一個。
The seven good kine are seven years; and the seven good ears are seven years: the dream is one.

41:27    那隨後上來的七隻又乾瘦又醜陋的母牛是七年，那七個虛空，被東風吹焦的穗子也是七年，都是七個荒年。
And the seven thin and ill favoured kine that came up after them are seven years; and the seven empty ears blasted with the east wind shall be seven years of famine.

41:28    這就是我對法老所說，神已將所要作的事顯明給法老了。
This is the thing which I have spoken unto Pharaoh: What God is about to do he sheweth unto Pharaoh.

41:29    埃及遍地必來七個大豐年，
Behold, there come seven years of great plenty throughout all the land of Egypt:

41:30    隨後又要來七個荒年，甚至埃及地都忘了先前的豐收，全地必被饑荒所滅。
And there shall arise after them seven years of famine; and all the plenty shall be forgotten in the land of Egypt; and the famine shall consume the land;

41:31    因那以後的饑荒甚大，便不覺得先前的豐收了。
And the plenty shall not be known in the land by reason of that famine following; for it shall be very grievous.

41:32    至於法老兩回作夢，是因神命定這事，而且必速速成就。
And for that the dream was doubled unto Pharaoh twice; it is because the thing is established by God, and God will shortly bring it to pass.

41:33    所以，法老當揀選一個有聰明有智慧的人，派他治理埃及地。
Now therefore let Pharaoh look out a man discreet and wise, and set him over the land of Egypt.

41:34    法老當這樣行，又派官員管理這地。當七個豐年的時候，徵收埃及地的五分之一，
Let Pharaoh do this, and let him appoint officers over the land, and take up the fifth part of the land of Egypt in the seven plenteous years.

41:35    叫他們把將來豐年一切的糧食聚斂起來，積蓄五穀，收存在各城裡作食物，歸於法老的手下。
And let them gather all the food of those good years that come, and lay up corn under the hand of Pharaoh, and let them keep food in the cities.

41:36    所積蓄的糧食可以防備埃及地將來的七個荒年，免得這地被饑荒所滅。
And that food shall be for store to the land against the seven years of famine, which shall be in the land of Egypt; that the land perish not through the famine.

41:37    法老和他一切臣僕都以這事為妙。
And the thing was good in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of all his servants.

41:38    法老對臣僕說，像這樣的人，有神的靈在他裡頭，我們豈能找得著呢，
And Pharaoh said unto his servants, Can we find such a one as this is, a man in whom the Spirit of God is?

41:39    法老對約瑟說，神既將這事都指示你，可見沒有人像你這樣有聰明有智慧。
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Forasmuch as God hath shewed thee all this, there is none so discreet and wise as thou art:

41:40    你可以掌管我的家。我的民都必聽從你的話。惟獨在寶座上我比你大。
Thou shalt be over my house, and according unto thy word shall all my people be ruled: only in the throne will I be greater than thou.

41:41    法老又對約瑟說，我派你治理埃及全地。
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, See, I have set thee over all the land of Egypt.

41:42    法老就摘下手上列印的戒指，戴在約瑟的手上，給他穿上細麻衣，把金鍊戴在他的頸項上，
And Pharaoh took off his ring from his hand, and put it upon Joseph's hand, and arrayed him in vestures of fine linen, and put a gold chain about his neck;

41:43    又叫約瑟坐他的副車，喝道的在前呼叫說，跪下。這樣，法老派他治理埃及全地。
And he made him to ride in the second chariot which he had; and they cried before him, Bow the knee: and he made him ruler over all the land of Egypt.

41:44    法老對約瑟說，我是法老，在埃及全地，若沒有你的命令，不許人擅自辦事（原文作動手動腳）。
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, I am Pharaoh, and without thee shall no man lift up his hand or foot in all the land of Egypt.

41:45    法老賜名給約瑟，叫撒發那忒巴內亞，又將安城的祭司波提非拉的女兒亞西納給他為妻。約瑟就出去巡行埃及地。
And Pharaoh called Joseph's name Zaphnathpaaneah; and he gave him to wife Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On. And Joseph went out over all the land of Egypt.

41:46    約瑟見埃及王法老的時候年三十歲。他從法老面前出去，遍行埃及全地。
And Joseph was thirty years old when he stood before Pharaoh king of Egypt. And Joseph went out from the presence of Pharaoh, and went throughout all the land of Egypt.

41:47    七個豐年之內，地的出產極豐極盛（原文作一把一把的），
And in the seven plenteous years the earth brought forth by handfuls.

41:48    約瑟聚斂埃及地七個豐年一切的糧食，把糧食積存在各城裡。各城周圍田地的糧食都積存在本城裡。
And he gathered up all the food of the seven years, which were in the land of Egypt, and laid up the food in the cities: the food of the field, which was round about every city, laid he up in the same.

41:49    約瑟積蓄五穀甚多，如同海邊的沙，無法計算，因為谷不可勝數。
And Joseph gathered corn as the sand of the sea, very much, until he left numbering; for it was without number.

41:50    荒年未到以前，安城的祭司波提非拉的女兒亞西納給約瑟生了兩個兒子。
And unto Joseph were born two sons before the years of famine came, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare unto him.

41:51    約瑟給長子起名叫瑪拿西（就是使之忘了的意思），因為他說，神使我忘了一切的困苦和我父的全家。
And Joseph called the name of the firstborn Manasseh: For God, said he, hath made me forget all my toil, and all my father's house.

41:52    他給次子起名叫以法蓮（就是使之昌盛的意思），因為他說，神使我在受苦的地方昌盛。
And the name of the second called he Ephraim: For God hath caused me to be fruitful in the land of my affliction.

41:53    埃及地的七個豐年一完，
And the seven years of plenteousness, that was in the land of Egypt, were ended.

41:54    七個荒年就來了。正如約瑟所說的，各地都有饑荒。惟獨埃及全地有糧食。
And the seven years of dearth began to come, according as Joseph had said: and the dearth was in all lands; but in all the land of Egypt there was bread.

41:55    及至埃及全地有了饑荒，眾民向法老哀求糧食，法老對他們說，你們往約瑟那裡去，凡他所說的，你們都要作。
And when all the land of Egypt was famished, the people cried to Pharaoh for bread: and Pharaoh said unto all the Egyptians, Go unto Joseph; what he saith to you, do.

41:56    當時饑荒遍滿天下，約瑟開了各處的倉，糶糧給埃及人。在埃及地饑荒甚大。
And the famine was over all the face of the earth: And Joseph opened all the storehouses, and sold unto the Egyptians; and the famine waxed sore in the land of Egypt.

41:57    各地的人都往埃及去，到約瑟那裡糴糧，因為天下的饑荒甚大。
And all countries came into Egypt to Joseph for to buy corn; because that the famine was so sore in all lands.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第42 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


42:1    雅各見埃及有糧，就對兒子們說，你們為什麼彼此觀望呢。
Now when Jacob saw that there was corn in Egypt, Jacob said unto his sons, Why do ye look one upon another?

42:2    我聽見埃及有糧，你們可以下去，從那裡為我們糴些來，使我們可以存活，不至於死。
And he said, Behold, I have heard that there is corn in Egypt: get you down thither, and buy for us from thence; that we may live, and not die.

42:3    於是，約瑟的十個哥哥都下埃及糴糧去了。
And Joseph's ten brethren went down to buy corn in Egypt.

42:4    但約瑟的兄弟便雅憫，雅各沒有打發他和哥哥們同去，因為雅各說，恐怕他遭害。
But Benjamin, Joseph's brother, Jacob sent not with his brethren; for he said, Lest peradventure mischief befall him.

42:5    來糴糧的人中有以色列的兒子們，因為迦南地也有饑荒。
And the sons of Israel came to buy corn among those that came: for the famine was in the land of Canaan.

42:6    當時治理埃及地的是約瑟。糶糧給那地眾民的就是他。約瑟的哥哥們來了，臉伏於地，向他下拜。
And Joseph was the governor over the land, and he it was that sold to all the people of the land: and Joseph's brethren came, and bowed down themselves before him with their faces to the earth.

42:7    約瑟看見他哥哥們，就認得他們，卻裝作生人，向他們說些嚴厲話，問他們說，你們從哪裡來。他們說，我們從迦南地來糴糧。
And Joseph saw his brethren, and he knew them, but made himself strange unto them, and spake roughly unto them; and he said unto them, Whence come ye? And they said, From the land of Canaan to buy food.

42:8    約瑟認得他哥哥們，他們卻不認得他。
And Joseph knew his brethren, but they knew not him.



42:9    約瑟想起從前所作的那兩個夢，就對他們說，你們是奸細，來窺探這地的虛實。
And Joseph remembered the dreams which he dreamed of them, and said unto them, Ye are spies; to see the nakedness of the land ye are come.

42:10    他們對他說，我主阿，不是的。僕人們是糴糧來的。
And they said unto him, Nay, my lord, but to buy food are thy servants come.

42:11    我們都是一個人的兒子，是誠實人。僕人們並不是奸細。
We are all one man's sons; we are true men, thy servants are no spies.

42:12    約瑟說，不然，你們必是窺探這地的虛實來的。
And he said unto them, Nay, but to see the nakedness of the land ye are come.

42:13    他們說，僕人們本是弟兄十二人，是迦南地一個人的兒子，頂小的現今在我們的父親那裡，有一個沒有了。
And they said, Thy servants are twelve brethren, the sons of one man in the land of Canaan; and, behold, the youngest is this day with our father, and one is not.

42:14    約瑟說，我才說你們是奸細，這話實在不錯。
And Joseph said unto them, That is it that I spake unto you, saying, Ye are spies:

42:15    我指著法老的性命起誓，若是你們的小兄弟不到這裡來，你們就不得出這地方，從此就可以把你們證驗出來了。
Hereby ye shall be proved: By the life of Pharaoh ye shall not go forth hence, except your youngest brother come hither.

42:16    須要打發你們中間一個人去，把你們的兄弟帶來。至於你們，都要囚在這裡，好證驗你們的話涉不真，若不真，我指著法老的性命起誓，你們一定是奸細。
Send one of you, and let him fetch your brother, and ye shall be kept in prison, that your words may be proved, whether there be any truth in you: or else by the life of Pharaoh surely ye are spies.

42:17    於是約瑟把他們都下在監裡三天。
And he put them all together into ward three days.

42:18    到了第三天，約瑟對他們說，我是敬畏神的。你們照我的話行就可以存活。
And Joseph said unto them the third day, This do, and live; for I fear God:

42:19    你們如果是誠實人，可以留你們中間的一個人囚在監裡，但你們可以帶著糧食回去，救你們家裡的饑荒。
If ye be true men, let one of your brethren be bound in the house of your prison: go ye, carry corn for the famine of your houses:

42:20    把你們的小兄弟帶到我這裡來，如此，你們的話便有證據，你們也不至於死。他們就照樣而行。
But bring your youngest brother unto me; so shall your words be verified, and ye shall not die. And they did so.

42:21    他們彼此說，我們在兄弟身上實在有罪。他哀求我們的時候，我們見他心裡的愁苦，卻不肯聽，所以這場苦難臨到我們身上。
And they said one to another, We are verily guilty concerning our brother, in that we saw the anguish of his soul, when he besought us, and we would not hear; therefore is this distress come upon us.

42:22    流便說，我豈不是對你們說過，不可傷害那孩子嗎。只是你們不肯聽，所以流他血的罪向我們追討。
And Reuben answered them, saying, Spake I not unto you, saying, Do not sin against the child; and ye would not hear? therefore, behold, also his blood is required.

42:23    他們不知道約瑟聽得出來，因為在他們中間用通事傳話。
And they knew not that Joseph understood them; for he spake unto them by an interpreter.

42:24    約瑟轉身退去，哭了一場，又回來對他們說話，就從他們中間挑出西緬來，在他們眼前把他捆綁。
And he turned himself about from them, and wept; and returned to them again, and communed with them, and took from them Simeon, and bound him before their eyes.

42:25    約瑟吩咐人把糧食裝滿他們的器具，把各人的銀子歸還在各人的口袋裡，又給他們路上用的食物，人就照他的話辦了。
Then Joseph commanded to fill their sacks with corn, and to restore every man's money into his sack, and to give them provision for the way: and thus did he unto them.

42:26    他們就把糧食馱在驢上，離開那裡去了。
And they laded their asses with the corn, and departed thence.

42:27    到了住宿的地方，他們中間有一個人開啟口袋，要拿料餵驢，才看見自己的銀子仍在口袋裡，
And as one of them opened his sack to give his ass provender in the inn, he espied his money; for, behold, it was in his sack's mouth.

42:28    就對弟兄們說，我的銀子歸還了，看阿，仍在我口袋裡。他們就提心吊膽，戰戰兢兢地彼此說，這是神向我們作什麼呢，
And he said unto his brethren, My money is restored; and, lo, it is even in my sack: and their heart failed them, and they were afraid, saying one to another, What is this that God hath done unto us?

42:29    他們來到迦南地，他們的父親雅各那裡，將所遭遇的事都告訴他，說，
And they came unto Jacob their father unto the land of Canaan, and told him all that befell unto them; saying,

42:30    那地的主對我們說嚴厲的話，把我們當作窺探那地的奸細。
The man, who is the lord of the land, spake roughly to us, and took us for spies of the country.

42:31    我們對他說，我們是誠實人，並不是奸細。
And we said unto him, We are true men; we are no spies:

42:32    我們本是弟兄十二人，都是一個父親的兒子，有一個沒有了，頂小的如今同我們的父親在迦南地。
We be twelve brethren, sons of our father; one is not, and the youngest is this day with our father in the land of Canaan.

42:33    那地的主對我們說，若要我知道你們是誠實人，可以留下你們中間的一個人在我這裡，你們可以帶著糧食回去，救你們家裡的饑荒。
And the man, the lord of the country, said unto us, Hereby shall I know that ye are true men; leave one of your brethren here with me, and take food for the famine of your households, and be gone:

42:34    把你們的小兄弟帶到我這裡來，我便知道你們不是奸細，乃是誠實人。這樣，我就把你們的弟兄交給你們，你們也可以在這地作買賣。
And bring your youngest brother unto me: then shall I know that ye are no spies, but that ye are true men: so will I deliver you your brother, and ye shall traffick in the land.

42:35    後來他們倒口袋，不料，各人的銀包都在口袋裡。他們和父親看見銀包就都害怕。
And it came to pass as they emptied their sacks, that, behold, every man's bundle of money was in his sack: and when both they and their father saw the bundles of money, they were afraid.

42:36    他們的父親雅各對他們說，你們使我喪失我的兒子，約瑟沒有了，西緬也沒有了，你們又要將便雅憫帶去。這些事都歸到我身上了。
And Jacob their father said unto them, Me have ye bereaved of my children: Joseph is not, and Simeon is not, and ye will take Benjamin away: all these things are against me.

42:37    流便對他父親說，我若不帶他回來交給你，你可以殺我的兩個兒子。只管把他交在我手裡，我必帶他回來交給你。
And Reuben spake unto his father, saying, Slay my two sons, if I bring him not to thee: deliver him into my hand, and I will bring him to thee again.

42:38    雅各說，我的兒子不可與你們一同下去。他哥哥死了，只剩下他，他若在你們所行的路上遭害，那便是你們使我白髮蒼蒼，悲悲慘慘地下陰間去了。
And he said, My son shall not go down with you; for his brother is dead, and he is left alone: if mischief befall him by the way in the which ye go, then shall ye bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第43 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


43:1    那地的饑荒甚大。
And the famine was sore in the land.

43:2    他們從埃及帶來的糧食吃盡了，他們的父親就對他們說，你們再去給我糴些糧來。
And it came to pass, when they had eaten up the corn which they had brought out of Egypt, their father said unto them, Go again, buy us a little food.

43:3    猶大對他說，那人諄諄地告誡我們說，你們的兄弟若不與你們同來，你們就不得見我的面。
And Judah spake unto him, saying, The man did solemnly protest unto us, saying, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be with you.

43:4    你若打發我們的兄弟與我們同去，我們就下去給你糴糧。
If thou wilt send our brother with us, we will go down and buy thee food:

43:5    你若不打發他去，我們就不下去，因為那人對我們說，你們的兄弟若不與你們同來，你們就不得見我的面。
But if thou wilt not send him, we will not go down: for the man said unto us, Ye shall not see my face, except your brother be with you.

43:6    以色列說，你們為什麼這樣害我，告訴那人你們還有兄弟呢，
And Israel said, Wherefore dealt ye so ill with me, as to tell the man whether ye had yet a brother?

43:7    他們回答說，那人詳細問到我們和我們的親屬，說，你們的父親還在嗎。你們還有兄弟嗎。我們就按著他所問的告訴他，焉能知道他要說，必須把你們的兄弟帶下來呢。
And they said, The man asked us straitly of our state, and of our kindred, saying, Is your father yet alive? have ye another brother? and we told him according to the tenor of these words: could we certainly know that he would say, Bring your brother down?

43:8    猶大又對他父親以色列說，你打發童子與我同去，我們就起身下去，好叫我們和你，並我們的婦人孩子，都得存活，不至於死。
And Judah said unto Israel his father, Send the lad with me, and we will arise and go; that we may live, and not die, both we, and thou, and also our little ones.

43:9    我為他作保。你可以從我手中追討，我若不帶他回來交在你面前，我情願永遠擔罪。
I will be surety for him; of my hand shalt thou require him: if I bring him not unto thee, and set him before thee, then let me bear the blame for ever:

43:10    我們若沒有耽擱，如今第二次都回來了。
For except we had lingered, surely now we had returned this second time.

43:11    他們的父親以色列說，若必須如此，你們就當這樣行，可以將這地土產中最好的乳香，蜂蜜，香料，沒藥，榧子，杏仁都取一點，收在器具裡，帶下去送給那人作禮物，
And their father Israel said unto them, If it must be so now, do this; take of the best fruits in the land in your vessels, and carry down the man a present, a little balm, and a little honey, spices, and myrrh, nuts, and almonds:

43:12    又要手裡加倍地帶銀子，並將歸還在你們口袋內的銀子仍帶在手裡。那或者是錯了。
And take double money in your hand; and the money that was brought again in the mouth of your sacks, carry it again in your hand; peradventure it was an oversight:

43:13    也帶著你們的兄弟，起身去見那人。
Take also your brother, and arise, go again unto the man:

43:14    但願全能的神使你們在那人面前蒙憐憫，釋放你們的那弟兄和便雅憫回來。我若喪了兒子，就喪了吧。
And God Almighty give you mercy before the man, that he may send away your other brother, and Benjamin. If I be bereaved of my children, I am bereaved.

43:15    於是，他們拿著那禮物，又手裡加倍地帶銀子，並且帶著便雅憫，起身下到埃及，站在約瑟面前。
And the men took that present, and they took double money in their hand, and Benjamin; and rose up, and went down to Egypt, and stood before Joseph.

43:16    約瑟見便雅憫和他們同來，就對家宰說，將這些人領到屋裡。要宰殺牲畜，預備筵席，因為晌午這些人同我吃飯。
And when Joseph saw Benjamin with them, he said to the ruler of his house, Bring these men home, and slay, and make ready; for these men shall dine with me at noon.

43:17    家宰就遵著約瑟的命去行，領他們進約瑟的屋裡。
And the man did as Joseph bade; and the man brought the men into Joseph's house.

43:18    他們因為被領到約瑟的屋裡，就害怕，說，領我們到這裡來，必是因為頭次歸還在我們口袋裡的銀子，找我們的錯縫，下手害我們，強取我們為奴僕，搶奪我們的驢。
And the men were afraid, because they were brought into Joseph's house; and they said, Because of the money that was returned in our sacks at the first time are we brought in; that he may seek occasion against us, and fall upon us, and take us for bondmen, and our asses.

43:19    他們就挨進約瑟的家宰，在屋門口和他說話，
And they came near to the steward of Joseph's house, and they communed with him at the door of the house,

43:20    說，我主阿，我們頭次下來實在是要糴糧。
And said, O sir, we came indeed down at the first time to buy food:

43:21    後來到了住宿的地方，我們開啟口袋，不料，各人的銀子，分量足數，仍在各人的口袋內，現在我們手裡又帶回來了。
And it came to pass, when we came to the inn, that we opened our sacks, and, behold, every man's money was in the mouth of his sack, our money in full weight: and we have brought it again in our hand.

43:22    另外又帶下銀子來糴糧。不知道先前誰把銀子放在我們的口袋裡。
And other money have we brought down in our hands to buy food: we cannot tell who put our money in our sacks.

43:23    家宰說，你們可以放心，不要害怕，是你們的神和你們父親的神賜給你們財寶在你們的口袋裡。你們的銀子，我早已收了。他就把西緬帶出來，交給他們。
And he said, Peace be to you, fear not: your God, and the God of your father, hath given you treasure in your sacks: I had your money. And he brought Simeon out unto them.

43:24    家宰就領他們進約瑟的屋裡，給他們水洗腳，又給他們草料餵驢。
And the man brought the men into Joseph's house, and gave them water, and they washed their feet; and he gave their asses provender.

43:25    他們就預備那禮物，等候約瑟晌午來，因為他們聽見要在那裡吃飯。
And they made ready the present against Joseph came at noon: for they heard that they should eat bread there.

43:26    約瑟來到家裡，他們就把手中的禮物拿進屋去給他，又俯伏在地，向他下拜。
And when Joseph came home, they brought him the present which was in their hand into the house, and bowed themselves to him to the earth.

43:27    約瑟問他們好，又問，你們的父親就是你們所說的那老人家平安嗎。他還在嗎。
And he asked them of their welfare, and said, Is your father well, the old man of whom ye spake? Is he yet alive?

43:28    他們回答說，你僕人我們的父親平安。他還在。於是他們低頭下拜。
And they answered, Thy servant our father is in good health, he is yet alive. And they bowed down their heads, and made obeisance.

43:29    約瑟舉目看見他同母的兄弟便雅憫，就說，你們向我所說那頂小的兄弟就是這位嗎。又說，小兒阿，願神賜恩給你。
And he lifted up his eyes, and saw his brother Benjamin, his mother's son, and said, Is this your younger brother, of whom ye spake unto me? And he said, God be gracious unto thee, my son.

43:30    約瑟愛弟之情發動，就急忙尋梢可哭之地，進入自己的屋裡，哭了一場。
And Joseph made haste; for his bowels did yearn upon his brother: and he sought where to weep; and he entered into his chamber, and wept there.

43:31    他洗了臉出來，勉強隱忍，吩咐人擺飯。
And he washed his face, and went out, and refrained himself, and said, Set on bread.

43:32    他們就為約瑟單擺了一席，為那些人又擺了一席，也為和約瑟同吃飯的埃及人另擺了一席，因為埃及人不可和希伯來人一同吃飯。那原是埃及人所厭惡的。
And they set on for him by himself, and for them by themselves, and for the Egyptians, which did eat with him, by themselves: because the Egyptians might not eat bread with the Hebrews; for that is an abomination unto the Egyptians.

43:33    約瑟使眾弟兄在他面前排列坐席，都按著長幼的次序，眾弟兄就彼此詫異。
And they sat before him, the firstborn according to his birthright, and the youngest according to his youth: and the men marvelled one at another.

43:34    約瑟把他面前的食物分出來，送給他們。但便雅憫所得的比別人多五倍。他們就飲酒，和約瑟一同宴樂。
And he took and sent messes unto them from before him: but Benjamin's mess was five times so much as any of theirs. And they drank, and were merry with him.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第44 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


44:1    約瑟吩咐家宰說，把糧食裝滿這些人的口袋，盡著他們的驢所能馱的，又把各人的銀子放在各人的口袋裡，
And he commanded the steward of his house, saying, Fill the men's sacks with food, as much as they can carry, and put every man's money in his sack's mouth.

44:2    並將我的銀盃和那少年人糴糧的銀子一同裝在他的口袋裡。家宰就照約瑟所說的話行了。
And put my cup, the silver cup, in the sack's mouth of the youngest, and his corn money. And he did according to the word that Joseph had spoken.

44:3    天一亮就打發那些人帶著驢走了。
As soon as the morning was light, the men were sent away, they and their asses.

44:4    他們出城走了不遠，約瑟對家宰說，起來，追那些人去，追上了就對他們說，你們為什麼以惡報善呢。
And when they were gone out of the city, and not yet far off, Joseph said unto his steward, Up, follow after the men; and when thou dost overtake them, say unto them, Wherefore have ye rewarded evil for good?

44:5    這不是我主人飲酒的杯嗎。豈不是他占卜用的嗎。你們這樣行是作惡了。
Is not this it in which my lord drinketh, and whereby indeed he divineth? ye have done evil in so doing.

44:6    家宰追上他們，將這些話對他們說了。
And he overtook them, and he spake unto them these same words.

44:7    他們回答說，我主為什麼說這樣的話呢。你僕人斷不能作這樣的事。
And they said unto him, Wherefore saith my lord these words? God forbid that thy servants should do according to this thing:

44:8    你看，我們從前在口袋裡所見的銀子，尚且從迦南地帶來還你，我們怎能從你主人家裡偷竊金銀呢。
Behold, the money, which we found in our sacks' mouths, we brought again unto thee out of the land of Canaan: how then should we steal out of thy lord's house silver or gold?

44:9    你僕人中無論在誰那裡搜出來，就叫他死，我們也作我主的奴僕。
With whomsoever of thy servants it be found, both let him die, and we also will be my lord's bondmen.

44:10    家宰說，現在就照你們的話行吧。在誰那裡搜出來，誰就作我的奴僕。其餘的都沒有罪。
And he said, Now also let it be according unto your words: he with whom it is found shall be my servant; and ye shall be blameless.

44:11    於是他們各人急忙把口袋卸在地下，各人開啟口袋。
Then they speedily took down every man his sack to the ground, and opened every man his sack.

44:12    家宰就搜查，從年長的起到年幼的為止，那杯竟在便雅憫的口袋裡搜出來。
And he searched, and began at the eldest, and left at the youngest: and the cup was found in Benjamin's sack.

44:13    他們就撕裂衣服，各人把馱子抬在驢上，回城去了。
Then they rent their clothes, and laded every man his ass, and returned to the city.

44:14    猶大和他弟兄們來到約瑟的屋中，約瑟還在那裡，他們就在他面前俯伏於地。
And Judah and his brethren came to Joseph's house; for he was yet there: and they fell before him on the ground.

44:15    約瑟對他們說，你們作的是什麼事呢。你們豈不知像我這樣的人必能占卜嗎，
And Joseph said unto them, What deed is this that ye have done? wot ye not that such a man as I can certainly divine?

44:16    猶大說，我們對我主說什麼呢。還有什麼話可說呢。我們怎能自己表白出來呢。神已經查出僕人的罪孽了。我們與那在他手中搜出杯來的都是我主的奴僕。
And Judah said, What shall we say unto my lord? what shall we speak? or how shall we clear ourselves? God hath found out the iniquity of thy servants: behold, we are my lord's servants, both we, and he also with whom the cup is found.

44:17    約瑟說，我斷不能這樣行。在誰的手中搜出杯來，誰就作我的奴僕。至於你們，可以平平安安地上你們父親那裡去。
And he said, God forbid that I should do so: but the man in whose hand the cup is found, he shall be my servant; and as for you, get you up in peace unto your father.

44:18    猶大挨近他，說，我主阿，求你容僕人說一句話給我主聽，不要向僕人發烈怒，因為你如同法老一樣。
Then Judah came near unto him, and said, Oh my lord, let thy servant, I pray thee, speak a word in my lord's ears, and let not thine anger burn against thy servant: for thou art even as Pharaoh.

44:19    我主曾問僕人們說，你們有父親有兄弟沒有。
My lord asked his servants, saying, Have ye a father, or a brother?

44:20    我們對我主說，我們有父親，已經年老，還有他老年所生的一個小孩子。他哥哥死了，他母親只撇下他一人，他父親疼愛他。
And we said unto my lord, We have a father, an old man, and a child of his old age, a little one; and his brother is dead, and he alone is left of his mother, and his father loveth him.

44:21    你對僕人說，把他帶到我這裡來，叫我親眼看看他。
And thou saidst unto thy servants, Bring him down unto me, that I may set mine eyes upon him.

44:22    我們對我主說，童子不能離開他父親，若是離開，他父親必死。
And we said unto my lord, The lad cannot leave his father: for if he should leave his father, his father would die.

44:23    你對僕人說，你們的小兄弟若不與你們一同下來，你們就不得再見我的面。
And thou saidst unto thy servants, Except your youngest brother come down with you, ye shall see my face no more.

44:24    我們上到你僕人我們父親那裡，就把我主的話告訴了他。
And it came to pass when we came up unto thy servant my father, we told him the words of my lord.

44:25    我們的父親說，你們再去給我糴些糧來。
And our father said, Go again, and buy us a little food.

44:26    我們就說，我們不能下去。我們的小兄弟若和我們同往，我們就可以下去。因為，小兄弟若不與我們同往，我們必不得見那人的面。
And we said, We cannot go down: if our youngest brother be with us, then will we go down: for we may not see the man's face, except our youngest brother be with us.

44:27    你僕人我父親對我們說，你們知道我的妻子給我生了兩個兒子。
And thy servant my father said unto us, Ye know that my wife bare me two sons:

44:28    一個離開我出去了。我說他必是被撕碎了，直到如今我也沒有見他。
And the one went out from me, and I said, Surely he is torn in pieces; and I saw him not since:

44:29    現在你們又要把這個帶去離開我，倘若他遭害，那便是你們使我白髮蒼蒼，悲悲慘慘地下陰間去了。
And if ye take this also from me, and mischief befall him, ye shall bring down my gray hairs with sorrow to the grave.

44:30    我父親的命與這童子的命相連。如今我回到你僕人我父親那裡，若沒有童子與我們同在，
Now therefore when I come to thy servant my father, and the lad be not with us; seeing that his life is bound up in the lad's life;

44:31    我們的父親見沒有童子，他就必死。這便是我們使你僕人我們的父親白髮蒼蒼，悲悲慘慘地下陰間去了。
It shall come to pass, when he seeth that the lad is not with us, that he will die: and thy servants shall bring down the gray hairs of thy servant our father with sorrow to the grave.

44:32    因為僕人曾向我父親為這童子作保，說，我若不帶他回來交給父親，我便在父親面前永遠擔罪。
For thy servant became surety for the lad unto my father, saying, If I bring him not unto thee, then I shall bear the blame to my father for ever.

44:33    現在求你容僕人住下，替這童子作我主的奴僕，叫童子和他哥哥們一同上去。
Now therefore, I pray thee, let thy servant abide instead of the lad a bondman to my lord; and let the lad go up with his brethren.

44:34    若童子不和我同去，我怎能上去見我父親呢。恐怕我看見災禍臨到我父親身上。
For how shall I go up to my father, and the lad be not with me? lest peradventure I see the evil that shall come on my father.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第45 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


45:1    約瑟在左右站著的人面前情不自禁，吩咐一聲說，人都要離開我出去。約瑟和弟兄相認的時候並沒有一人站在他面前。
Then Joseph could not refrain himself before all them that stood by him; and he cried, Cause every man to go out from me. And there stood no man with him, while Joseph made himself known unto his brethren.

45:2    他就放聲大哭，埃及人和法老家中的人都聽見了。
And he wept aloud: and the Egyptians and the house of Pharaoh heard.

45:3    約瑟對他弟兄們說，我是約瑟。我的父親還在嗎，他弟兄不能回答，因為在他面前都驚惶。
And Joseph said unto his brethren, I am Joseph; doth my father yet live? And his brethren could not answer him; for they were troubled at his presence.

45:4    約瑟又對他弟兄們說，請你們近前來。他們就近前來。他說，我是你們的兄弟約瑟，就是你們所賣到埃及的。
And Joseph said unto his brethren, Come near to me, I pray you. And they came near. And he said, I am Joseph your brother, whom ye sold into Egypt.

45:5    現在，不要因為把我賣到這裡自憂自恨。這是神差我在你們以先來，為要保全生命。
Now therefore be not grieved, nor angry with yourselves, that ye sold me hither: for God did send me before you to preserve life.

45:6    現在這地的饑荒已經二年了，還在五年不能耕種，不能收成。
For these two years hath the famine been in the land: and yet there are five years, in the which there shall neither be earing nor harvest.

45:7    神差我在你們以先來，為要給你們存留餘種在世上，又要大施拯救，保全你們的生命。
And God sent me before you to preserve you a posterity in the earth, and to save your lives by a great deliverance.

45:8    這樣看來，差我到這裡來的不是你們，乃是神。他又使我如法老的父，作他全家的主，並埃及全地的宰相。
So now it was not you that sent me hither, but God: and he hath made me a father to Pharaoh, and lord of all his house, and a ruler throughout all the land of Egypt.

45:9    你們要趕緊上到我父親那裡。對他說，你兒子約瑟這樣說，神使我作全埃及的主，請你下到我這裡來，不要耽延。
Haste ye, and go up to my father, and say unto him, Thus saith thy son Joseph, God hath made me lord of all Egypt: come down unto me, tarry not:

45:10    你和你我兒子孫子，連牛群羊群，並一切所有的，都可以住在歌珊地，與我相近。
And thou shalt dwell in the land of Goshen, and thou shalt be near unto me, thou, and thy children, and thy children's children, and thy flocks, and thy herds, and all that thou hast:

45:11    我要在那裡奉養你。因為還有五年的饑荒，免得你和你的眷屬，並一切所有的，都敗落了。
And there will I nourish thee; for yet there are five years of famine; lest thou, and thy household, and all that thou hast, come to poverty.

45:12    況且你們的眼和我兄弟便雅憫的眼都看見是我親口對你們說話。
And, behold, your eyes see, and the eyes of my brother Benjamin, that it is my mouth that speaketh unto you.

45:13    你們也要將我在埃及一切的榮耀和你們所看見的事都告訴我父親，又要趕緊地將我父親搬到我這裡來。
And ye shall tell my father of all my glory in Egypt, and of all that ye have seen; and ye shall haste and bring down my father hither.

45:14    於是約瑟伏在他兄弟便雅憫的頸項上哭，便雅憫也在他的頸項上哭。
And he fell upon his brother Benjamin's neck, and wept; and Benjamin wept upon his neck.

45:15    他又與眾弟兄親嘴，抱著他們哭，隨後他弟兄就和他說話。
Moreover he kissed all his brethren, and wept upon them: and after that his brethren talked with him.

45:16    這風聲傳到法老的宮裡，說，約瑟的弟兄們來了。法老和他的臣僕都很喜歡。
And the fame thereof was heard in Pharaoh's house, saying, Joseph's brethren are come: and it pleased Pharaoh well, and his servants.

45:17    法老對約瑟說，你吩咐你的弟兄們說，你們要這樣行，把馱子抬在牲口上，起身往迦南地去。
And Pharaoh said unto Joseph, Say unto thy brethren, This do ye; lade your beasts, and go, get you unto the land of Canaan;

45:18    將你們的父親和你們的眷屬都搬到我這裡來，我要把埃及地的美物賜給你們，你們也要吃這地肥美的出產。
And take your father and your households, and come unto me: and I will give you the good of the land of Egypt, and ye shall eat the fat of the land.

45:19    現在我吩咐你們要這樣行，從埃及地帶著車輛去，把你們的孩子和妻子，並你們的父親都搬來。
Now thou art commanded, this do ye; take you wagons out of the land of Egypt for your little ones, and for your wives, and bring your father, and come.

45:20    你們眼中不要愛惜你們的傢俱，因為埃及全地的美物都是你們的。
Also regard not your stuff; for the good of all the land of Egypt is yours.

45:21    以色列的兒子們就如此行。約瑟照著法老的吩咐給他們車輛和路上用的食物，
And the children of Israel did so: and Joseph gave them wagons, according to the commandment of Pharaoh, and gave them provision for the way.

45:22    又給他們各人一套衣服，惟獨給便雅憫三百銀子，五套衣服。
To all of them he gave each man changes of raiment; but to Benjamin he gave three hundred pieces of silver, and five changes of raiment.

45:23    送給他父親公驢十匹，馱著埃及的美物，母驢十匹，馱著糧食與餅和菜，為他父親路上用。
And to his father he sent after this manner; ten asses laden with the good things of Egypt, and ten she asses laden with corn and bread and meat for his father by the way.

45:24    於是約瑟打發他弟兄們回去，又對他們說，你們不要在路上相爭。
So he sent his brethren away, and they departed: and he said unto them, See that ye fall not out by the way.

45:25    他們從埃及上去，來到迦南地，他們的父親雅各那裡，
And they went up out of Egypt, and came into the land of Canaan unto Jacob their father,

45:26    告訴他說，約瑟還在，並且作埃及全地的宰相。雅各心裡冰涼，因為不信他們。
And told him, saying, Joseph is yet alive, and he is governor over all the land of Egypt. And Jacob's heart fainted, for he believed them not.

45:27    他們便將約瑟對他們說的一切話都告訴了他。他們父親雅各又看見約瑟打發來接他的車輛，心就甦醒了。
And they told him all the words of Joseph, which he had said unto them: and when he saw the wagons which Joseph had sent to carry him, the spirit of Jacob their father revived:

45:28    以色列說，吧了。吧了。我的兒子約瑟還在，趁我未死以先，我要去見他一面。
And Israel said, It is enough; Joseph my son is yet alive: I will go and see him before I die.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第46 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


46:1    以色列帶著一切所有的，起身來到別是巴，就獻祭給他父親以撒的神。
And Israel took his journey with all that he had, and came to Beersheba, and offered sacrifices unto the God of his father Isaac.

46:2    夜間，神在異象中對以色列說，雅各。雅各。他說，我在這裡。
And God spake unto Israel in the visions of the night, and said, Jacob, Jacob. And he said, Here am I.

46:3    神說，我是神，就是你父親的神。你下埃及去不要害怕，因為我必使你在那裡成為大族。
And he said, I am God, the God of thy father: fear not to go down into Egypt; for I will there make of thee a great nation:

46:4    我要和你同下埃及去，也必定帶你上來。約瑟必給你送終（原文作將手按你的眼睛上）。
I will go down with thee into Egypt; and I will also surely bring thee up again: and Joseph shall put his hand upon thine eyes.

46:5    雅各就從別是巴起行。以色列的兒子們使他們的父親雅各和他們的妻子，兒女都坐在法老為雅各送來的車上。
And Jacob rose up from Beersheba: and the sons of Israel carried Jacob their father, and their little ones, and their wives, in the wagons which Pharaoh had sent to carry him.

46:6    他們又帶著迦南地所得的牲畜，貨財來到埃及。雅各和他的一切子孫都一同來了，
And they took their cattle, and their goods, which they had gotten in the land of Canaan, and came into Egypt, Jacob, and all his seed with him:

46:7    雅各把他的兒子，孫子，女兒，孫女，並他的子子孫孫，一同帶到埃及。
His sons, and his sons' sons with him, his daughters, and his sons' daughters, and all his seed brought he with him into Egypt.

46:8    來到埃及的以色列人名字記在下面。雅各和他的兒孫，雅各的長子是流便。
And these are the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt, Jacob and his sons: Reuben, Jacob's firstborn.

46:9    流便的兒子是哈諾，法路，希斯倫，迦米。
And the sons of Reuben; Hanoch, and Phallu, and Hezron, and Carmi.

46:10    西緬的兒子是耶母利，雅憫，阿轄，雅斤，瑣轄，還有迦南女子所生的掃羅。
And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman.

46:11    利未的兒子是革順，哥轄，米拉利。
And the sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

46:12    猶大的兒子是珥，俄南，示拉，法勒斯，謝拉。惟有珥與俄南死在迦南地。法勒斯的兒子是希斯倫，哈母勒。
And the sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah, and Pharez, and Zarah: but Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan. And the sons of Pharez were Hezron and Hamul.

46:13    以薩迦的兒子是陀拉，普瓦，約伯，伸侖。
And the sons of Issachar; Tola, and Phuvah, and Job, and Shimron.

46:14    西布倫的兒子是西烈，以倫，雅利。
And the sons of Zebulun; Sered, and Elon, and Jahleel.

46:15    這是利亞在巴旦亞蘭給雅各所生的兒子，還在女兒底拿。兒孫共三十三人。
These be the sons of Leah, which she bare unto Jacob in Padanaram, with his daughter Dinah: all the souls of his sons and his daughters were thirty and three.

46:16    迦得的兒子是洗非芸，哈基，書尼，以斯本，以利，亞羅底，亞列利。
And the sons of Gad; Ziphion, and Haggi, Shuni, and Ezbon, Eri, and Arodi, and Areli.

46:17    亞設的兒子是音拿，亦施瓦，亦施韋，比利亞，還有他們的妹子西拉。比利亞的兒子是希別，瑪結。
And the sons of Asher; Jimnah, and Ishuah, and Isui, and Beriah, and Serah their sister: and the sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel.

46:18    這是拉班給他女兒利亞的婢女悉帕從雅各所生的兒孫，共有十六人。
These are the sons of Zilpah, whom Laban gave to Leah his daughter, and these she bare unto Jacob, even sixteen souls.

46:19    雅各之妻拉結的兒子是約瑟和便雅憫。
The sons of Rachel Jacob's wife; Joseph, and Benjamin.

46:20    約瑟在埃及地生了瑪拿西和以法蓮，就是安城的祭司波提非拉的女兒亞西納給約瑟生的。
And unto Joseph in the land of Egypt were born Manasseh and Ephraim, which Asenath the daughter of Potipherah priest of On bare unto him.

46:21    便雅憫的兒子是比拉，比結，亞實別，基拉，乃幔，以希，羅實，母平，戶平，亞勒。
And the sons of Benjamin were Belah, and Becher, and Ashbel, Gera, and Naaman, Ehi, and Rosh, Muppim, and Huppim, and Ard.

46:22    這是拉結給雅各所生的兒孫，共有十四人。
These are the sons of Rachel, which were born to Jacob: all the souls were fourteen.

46:23    但的兒子是戶伸。
And the sons of Dan; Hushim.

46:24    拿弗他利的兒子是雅薛，沽尼，耶色，示冷。
And the sons of Naphtali; Jahzeel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shillem.

46:25    這是拉班給他女兒拉結的婢女闢拉從雅各所生的兒孫，共有七人。
These are the sons of Bilhah, which Laban gave unto Rachel his daughter, and she bare these unto Jacob: all the souls were seven.

46:26    那與雅各同到埃及的，除了他兒婦之外，凡從他所生的，共有六十六人。
All the souls that came with Jacob into Egypt, which came out of his loins, besides Jacob's sons' wives, all the souls were threescore and six;

46:27    還有約瑟在埃及所生的兩個兒子。雅各家來到埃及的共有七十人。
And the sons of Joseph, which were born him in Egypt, were two souls: all the souls of the house of Jacob, which came into Egypt, were threescore and ten.

46:28    雅各打發猶大先去見約瑟，請派人引路往歌珊去。於是他們來到歌珊地。
And he sent Judah before him unto Joseph, to direct his face unto Goshen; and they came into the land of Goshen.

46:29    約瑟套車往歌珊去，迎接他父親以色列，及至見了面，就伏在父親的頸項，哭了許久。
And Joseph made ready his chariot, and went up to meet Israel his father, to Goshen, and presented himself unto him; and he fell on his neck, and wept on his neck a good while.

46:30    以色列對約瑟說，我既得見你的面，知道你還在，就是死我也甘心。
And Israel said unto Joseph, Now let me die, since I have seen thy face, because thou art yet alive.

46:31    約瑟對他的弟兄和他父的全家說，我要上去告訴法老，對他說，我的弟兄和我父的全家從前在迦南地，現今都到我這裡來了。
And Joseph said unto his brethren, and unto his father's house, I will go up, and shew Pharaoh, and say unto him, My brethren, and my father's house, which were in the land of Canaan, are come unto me;

46:32    他們本是牧羊的人，以養牲畜為業。他們把羊群牛群和一切所有的都帶來了。
And the men are shepherds, for their trade hath been to feed cattle; and they have brought their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have.

46:33    等法老召你們的時候，問你們說，你們以何事為業。
And it shall come to pass, when Pharaoh shall call you, and shall say, What is your occupation?

46:34    你們要說，你的僕人，從幼年直到如今，都以養牲畜為業，連我們的祖宗也都以此為業。這樣，你們可以住在歌珊地，因為凡牧羊的都被埃及人所厭惡。
That ye shall say, Thy servants' trade hath been about cattle from our youth even until now, both we, and also our fathers: that ye may dwell in the land of Goshen; for every shepherd is an abomination unto the Egyptians.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第47 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


47:1    約瑟進去告訴法老說，我的父親和我的弟兄帶著羊群牛群，並一切所有的，從迦南地來了，如今在歌珊地。
Then Joseph came and told Pharaoh, and said, My father and my brethren, and their flocks, and their herds, and all that they have, are come out of the land of Canaan; and, behold, they are in the land of Goshen.

47:2    約瑟從他弟兄中挑出五個人來，引他們去見法老。
And he took some of his brethren, even five men, and presented them unto Pharaoh.

47:3    法老問約瑟的弟兄說，你們以可事為業，他們對法老說，你僕人是牧羊的，連我們的祖宗也是牧羊的。
And Pharaoh said unto his brethren, What is your occupation? And they said unto Pharaoh, Thy servants are shepherds, both we, and also our fathers.

47:4    他們又對法老說，迦南地的饑荒甚大，僕人的羊群沒有草吃，所以我們來到這地寄居。現在求你容僕人住在歌珊地。
They said moreover unto Pharaoh, For to sojourn in the land are we come; for thy servants have no pasture for their flocks; for the famine is sore in the land of Canaan: now therefore, we pray thee, let thy servants dwell in the land of Goshen.

47:5    法老對約瑟說，你父親和你弟兄到你這裡來了，
And Pharaoh spake unto Joseph, saying, Thy father and thy brethren are come unto thee:

47:6    埃及地都在你面前，只管叫你父親和你弟兄住在國中最好的地。他們可以住在歌珊地。你若知道他們中間有什麼能人，就派他們看管我的牲畜。
The land of Egypt is before thee; in the best of the land make thy father and brethren to dwell; in the land of Goshen let them dwell: and if thou knowest any men of activity among them, then make them rulers over my cattle.

47:7    約瑟領他父親雅各進到法老面前，雅各就給法老祝福。
And Joseph brought in Jacob his father, and set him before Pharaoh: and Jacob blessed Pharaoh.

47:8    法老問雅各說，你平生的年日是多少呢，
And Pharaoh said unto Jacob, How old art thou?

47:9    雅各對法老說，我寄居在世的年日是一百三十歲，我平生的年日又少又苦，不及我列祖早在世寄居的年日。
And Jacob said unto Pharaoh, The days of the years of my pilgrimage are an hundred and thirty years: few and evil have the days of the years of my life been, and have not attained unto the days of the years of the life of my fathers in the days of their pilgrimage.

47:10    雅各又給法老祝福，就從法老面前出去了。
And Jacob blessed Pharaoh, and went out from before Pharaoh.

47:11    約瑟遵著法老的命，把埃及國最好的地，就是蘭塞境內的地，給他父親和弟兄居住，作為產業。
And Joseph placed his father and his brethren, and gave them a possession in the land of Egypt, in the best of the land, in the land of Rameses, as Pharaoh had commanded.

47:12    約瑟用糧食奉養他父親和他弟兄，並他父親全家的眷屬，都是照各家的人口奉養他們。
And Joseph nourished his father, and his brethren, and all his father's household, with bread, according to their families.

47:13    饑荒甚大，全地都絕了糧，甚至埃及地和迦南地的人因那饑荒的緣故都餓昏了。
And there was no bread in all the land; for the famine was very sore, so that the land of Egypt and all the land of Canaan fainted by reason of the famine.

47:14    約瑟收聚了埃及地和迦南地所有的銀子，就是眾人糴糧的銀子，約瑟就把那銀子帶到法老的宮裡。
And Joseph gathered up all the money that was found in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, for the corn which they bought: and Joseph brought the money into Pharaoh's house.

47:15    埃及地和迦南地的銀子都花盡了，埃及眾人都來見約瑟，說，我們的銀子都用盡了，求你給我們糧食，我們為什麼死在你面前呢。
And when money failed in the land of Egypt, and in the land of Canaan, all the Egyptians came unto Joseph, and said, Give us bread: for why should we die in thy presence? for the money faileth.

47:16    約瑟說，若是銀子用盡了，可以把你們的牲畜給我，我就為你們的牲畜給你們糧食。
And Joseph said, Give your cattle; and I will give you for your cattle, if money fail.

47:17    於是他們把牲畜趕到約瑟那裡，約瑟就拿糧食換了他們的牛，羊，驢，馬。那一年因換他們一切的牲畜，就用糧食養活他們。
And they brought their cattle unto Joseph: and Joseph gave them bread in exchange for horses, and for the flocks, and for the cattle of the herds, and for the asses: and he fed them with bread for all their cattle for that year.

47:18    那一年過去，第二年他們又來見約瑟，說，我們不瞞我主，我們的銀子都花盡了，牲畜也都歸了我主。我們在我主眼前，除了我們的身體和田地之外，一無所剩。
When that year was ended, they came unto him the second year, and said unto him, We will not hide it from my lord, how that our money is spent; my lord also hath our herds of cattle; there is not ought left in the sight of my lord, but our bodies, and our lands:

47:19    你何忍見我們人死地荒呢。求你用糧食買我們的我們的地，我們和我們的地就要給法老效力。又求你給我們種子，使我們得以存活，不至死亡，地土也不至荒涼。
Wherefore shall we die before thine eyes, both we and our land? buy us and our land for bread, and we and our land will be servants unto Pharaoh: and give us seed, that we may live, and not die, that the land be not desolate.

47:20    於是，約瑟為法老買了埃及所有的地，埃及人因被饑荒所迫，各都賣了自己的田地。那地就都歸了法老。
And Joseph bought all the land of Egypt for Pharaoh; for the Egyptians sold every man his field, because the famine prevailed over them: so the land became Pharaoh's.

47:21    至於百姓，約瑟叫他們，從埃及赦邊直到埃及那邊，都各歸各城。
And as for the people, he removed them to cities from one end of the borders of Egypt even to the other end thereof.

47:22    惟有祭司的地，約瑟沒有買，因為祭司有從法老所得的常俸。他們吃法老所給的常俸，所以他們不賣自己的地。
Only the land of the priests bought he not; for the priests had a portion assigned them of Pharaoh, and did eat their portion which Pharaoh gave them: wherefore they sold not their lands.

47:23    約瑟對百姓說，我今日為法老買了你們和你們的地，看哪，這裡有種子給你們，你們可以種地。
Then Joseph said unto the people, Behold, I have bought you this day and your land for Pharaoh: lo, here is seed for you, and ye shall sow the land.

47:24    後來打糧食的時候，你們要把五分之一納給法老，四分可以歸你們作地裡的種子，也作你們和你們家口孩童的食物。
And it shall come to pass in the increase, that ye shall give the fifth part unto Pharaoh, and four parts shall be your own, for seed of the field, and for your food, and for them of your households, and for food for your little ones.

47:25    他們說，你救了我們的性命。但願我們在我主眼前蒙恩，我們就作法老的僕人。
And they said, Thou hast saved our lives: let us find grace in the sight of my lord, and we will be Pharaoh's servants.

47:26    於是約瑟為埃及地定下常例，直到今日，法老必得五分之一，惟獨祭司的地不歸法老。
And Joseph made it a law over the land of Egypt unto this day, that Pharaoh should have the fifth part; except the land of the priests only, which became not Pharaoh's.

47:27    以色列人住在埃及的歌珊地。他們在那裡置了產業，並且生育甚多。
And Israel dwelt in the land of Egypt, in the country of Goshen; and they had possessions therein, and grew, and multiplied exceedingly.

47:28    雅各住在埃及地十七年，雅各平生的年日是一百四十七歲。
And Jacob lived in the land of Egypt seventeen years: so the whole age of Jacob was an hundred forty and seven years.

47:29    以色列的死期臨近了，他就叫了他兒子約瑟來，說，我若在你眼前蒙恩，請你把手放在我大腿底下，用慈愛和誠實待我，請你不要將我葬在埃及。
And the time drew nigh that Israel must die: and he called his son Joseph, and said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight, put, I pray thee, thy hand under my thigh, and deal kindly and truly with me; bury me not, I pray thee, in Egypt:

47:30    我與我祖我父同睡的時候，你要將我帶出埃及，葬在他們所葬的地方。約瑟說，我必遵著你的命而行。
But I will lie with my fathers, and thou shalt carry me out of Egypt, and bury me in their buryingplace. And he said, I will do as thou hast said.

47:31    雅各說，你要向我起誓。約瑟就向他起了誓，於是以色列在床頭上（或作扶著杖頭）敬拜神。
And he said, Swear unto me. And he sware unto him. And Israel bowed himself upon the bed's head.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第48 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


48:1    這事以後，有人告訴約瑟說，你的父親病了。他就帶著兩個兒子瑪拿西和以法蓮同去。
And it came to pass after these things, that one told Joseph, Behold, thy father is sick: and he took with him his two sons, Manasseh and Ephraim.

48:2    有人告訴雅各說，請看，你兒子約瑟到你這裡來了。以色列就勉強在床上坐起來。
And one told Jacob, and said, Behold, thy son Joseph cometh unto thee: and Israel strengthened himself, and sat upon the bed.

48:3    雅各對約瑟說，全能的神曾在迦南地的路斯向我顯現，賜福與我，
And Jacob said unto Joseph, God Almighty appeared unto me at Luz in the land of Canaan, and blessed me,

48:4    對我說，我必使你生養眾多，成為多民，又要把這地賜給你的後裔，永遠為業。
And said unto me, Behold, I will make thee fruitful, and multiply thee, and I will make of thee a multitude of people; and will give this land to thy seed after thee for an everlasting possession.

48:5    我未到埃及見你之先，你在埃及地所生的以法蓮和瑪拿西這兩個兒子是我的，正如流便和西緬是我的一樣。
And now thy two sons, Ephraim and Manasseh, which were born unto thee in the land of Egypt before I came unto thee into Egypt, are mine; as Reuben and Simeon, they shall be mine.

48:6    你在他們以後所生的就是你的，他們可以歸於他們弟兄的名下得產業。
And thy issue, which thou begettest after them, shall be thine, and shall be called after the name of their brethren in their inheritance.

48:7    至於我，我從巴旦來的時候，拉結死在我眼前，在迦南地的路上，離以法他還有一段路程，我就把她葬在以法他的路上。以法他就是伯利恆。
And as for me, when I came from Padan, Rachel died by me in the land of Canaan in the way, when yet there was but a little way to come unto Ephrath: and I buried her there in the way of Ephrath; the same is Bethlehem.

48:8    以色列看見約瑟的兩個兒子，就說，這是誰，
And Israel beheld Joseph's sons, and said, Who are these?

48:9    約瑟對他父親說，這是神在這裡賜給我的兒子。以色列說，請你領他們到我跟前，我要給他們祝福。
And Joseph said unto his father, They are my sons, whom God hath given me in this place. And he said, Bring them, I pray thee, unto me, and I will bless them.

48:10    以色列年紀老邁，眼睛昏花，不能看見。約瑟領他們到他跟前，他就和他們親嘴，抱著他們。
Now the eyes of Israel were dim for age, so that he could not see. And he brought them near unto him; and he kissed them, and embraced them.

48:11    以色列對約瑟說，我想不到得見你的面，不料，神又使我得見你的兒子。
And Israel said unto Joseph, I had not thought to see thy face: and, lo, God hath shewed me also thy seed.

48:12    約瑟把兩個兒子從以色列兩膝中領出來，自己就臉伏於地下拜。
And Joseph brought them out from between his knees, and he bowed himself with his face to the earth.

48:13    隨後，約瑟又拉著他們兩個，以法蓮在他的右手裡，對著以色列的左手，瑪拿西在他的左手裡，對著以色列的右手，領他們到以色列的跟前。
And Joseph took them both, Ephraim in his right hand toward Israel's left hand, and Manasseh in his left hand toward Israel's right hand, and brought them near unto him.

48:14    以色列伸出右手來，按在以法蓮的頭上，以法蓮乃是次子。又剪搭過左手來，按在瑪拿西的頭上，瑪拿西原是長子。
And Israel stretched out his right hand, and laid it upon Ephraim's head, who was the younger, and his left hand upon Manasseh's head, guiding his hands wittingly; for Manasseh was the firstborn.

48:15    他就給約瑟祝福說，願我祖亞伯拉罕和我父以撒所事奉的神，就是一生牧養我直到今日的神，
And he blessed Joseph, and said, God, before whom my fathers Abraham and Isaac did walk, the God which fed me all my life long unto this day,

48:16    救贖我脫離一切患難的那使者，賜福與這兩個童子。願他們歸在我的名下和我祖亞伯拉罕，我父以撒的名下。又願他們在世界中生養眾多。
The Angel which redeemed me from all evil, bless the lads; and let my name be named on them, and the name of my fathers Abraham and Isaac; and let them grow into a multitude in the midst of the earth.

48:17    約瑟見他父親把右手按在以法蓮的頭上，就不喜悅，便提起他父親的手，要從以法蓮的頭上挪到瑪拿西的頭上。
And when Joseph saw that his father laid his right hand upon the head of Ephraim, it displeased him: and he held up his father's hand, to remove it from Ephraim's head unto Manasseh's head.

48:18    約瑟對他父親說，我父，不是這樣。這本是長子，求你把右手按在他的頭上。
And Joseph said unto his father, Not so, my father: for this is the firstborn; put thy right hand upon his head.

48:19    他父親不從，說，我知道，我兒，我知道。他也必成為一族，也必昌大。只是他的兄弟將來比他還大。他兄弟的後裔要成為多族。
And his father refused, and said, I know it, my son, I know it: he also shall become a people, and he also shall be great: but truly his younger brother shall be greater than he, and his seed shall become a multitude of nations.

48:20    當日就給他們祝福說，以色列人要指著你們祝福說，願神使你如以法蓮，瑪拿西一樣。於是立以法蓮在瑪拿西以上。
And he blessed them that day, saying, In thee shall Israel bless, saying, God make thee as Ephraim and as Manasseh: and he set Ephraim before Manasseh.

48:21    以色列又對約瑟說，我要死了，但神必與你們同在，領你們回到你們列祖之地。
And Israel said unto Joseph, Behold, I die: but God shall be with you, and bring you again unto the land of your fathers.

48:22    並且我從前用弓用刀從亞摩利人手下奪的那塊地，我都賜給你，使你比眾弟兄多得一分。
Moreover I have given to thee one portion above thy brethren, which I took out of the hand of the Amorite with my sword and with my bow.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第49 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


49:1    雅各叫了他的兒子們來，說，你們都來聚集，我好把你們日後必遇的事告訴你們。
And Jacob called unto his sons, and said, Gather yourselves together, that I may tell you that which shall befall you in the last days.

49:2    雅各的兒子們，你們要聚集而聽，要聽你們父親以色列的話。
Gather yourselves together, and hear, ye sons of Jacob; and hearken unto Israel your father.

49:3    流便哪，你是我的長子，是我力量強壯的時候生的，本當大有尊榮，權力超眾。
Reuben, thou art my firstborn, my might, and the beginning of my strength, the excellency of dignity, and the excellency of power:

49:4    但你放縱情慾，滾沸如水，必不得居首位。因為你上了你父親的床，汙穢了我的榻。
Unstable as water, thou shalt not excel; because thou wentest up to thy father's bed; then defiledst thou it: he went up to my couch.

49:5    西緬和利未是弟兄。他們的刀劍是殘忍的器具。
Simeon and Levi are brethren; instruments of cruelty are in their habitations.

49:6    我的靈阿，不要與他們同謀。我的心哪，不要與他們聯絡。因為他們趁怒殺害人命，任意砍斷牛腿大筋。
O my soul, come not thou into their secret; unto their assembly, mine honour, be not thou united: for in their anger they slew a man, and in their selfwill they digged down a wall.

49:7    他們的怒氣暴烈可咒。他們的忿恨殘忍可詛。我要使他們分居在雅各家裡，散住在以色列地中。
Cursed be their anger, for it was fierce; and their wrath, for it was cruel: I will divide them in Jacob, and scatter them in Israel.

49:8    猶大阿，你弟兄們必讚美你。你手必掐住仇敵的頸項。你父親的兒子們必向你下拜。
Judah, thou art he whom thy brethren shall praise: thy hand shall be in the neck of thine enemies; thy father's children shall bow down before thee.

49:9    猶大是個小獅子。我兒阿，你抓了食便上去。你屈下身去，臥如公獅，蹲如母獅，誰敢惹你。
Judah is a lion's whelp: from the prey, my son, thou art gone up: he stooped down, he couched as a lion, and as an old lion; who shall rouse him up?

49:10    圭必不離猶大，杖必不離他兩腳之間，直等細羅（就是賜平安者）來到，萬民都必歸順。
The sceptre shall not depart from Judah, nor a lawgiver from between his feet, until Shiloh come; and unto him shall the gathering of the people be.

49:11    猶大把小驢拴在葡萄樹上，把驢駒拴在美好的葡萄樹上。他在葡萄酒中洗了衣服，在葡萄汁中洗了袍褂。
Binding his foal unto the vine, and his ass's colt unto the choice vine; he washed his garments in wine, and his clothes in the blood of grapes:

49:12    他的眼睛必因酒紅潤。他的牙齒必因奶白亮。
His eyes shall be red with wine, and his teeth white with milk.

49:13    西布倫必住在海口，必成為停船的海口。他的境界必延到西頓。
Zebulun shall dwell at the haven of the sea; and he shall be for an haven of ships; and his border shall be unto Zidon.

49:14    以薩迦是個強壯的驢，臥在羊圈之中。
Issachar is a strong ass couching down between two burdens:

49:15    他以安靜為佳，以肥地為美，便低肩背重，成為服苦的僕人。
And he saw that rest was good, and the land that it was pleasant; and bowed his shoulder to bear, and became a servant unto tribute.

49:16    但必判斷他的民，作以色列支派之一。
Dan shall judge his people, as one of the tribes of Israel.

49:17    但必作道上的蛇，路中的虺，咬傷馬蹄，使騎馬的墜落於後。
Dan shall be a serpent by the way, an adder in the path, that biteth the horse heels, so that his rider shall fall backward.

49:18    耶和華阿，我向來等候你的救恩。
I have waited for thy salvation, O LORD.

49:19    迦得必被敵軍追逼，他卻要追逼他們的腳跟。
Gad, a troop shall overcome him: but he shall overcome at the last.

49:20    亞設之地必出肥美的糧食，且出君王的美味。
Out of Asher his bread shall be fat, and he shall yield royal dainties.

49:21    拿弗他利是被釋放的母鹿。他出嘉美的言語。
Naphtali is a hind let loose: he giveth goodly words.

49:22    約瑟是多結果子的樹枝，是泉旁多結果的枝子。他的枝條探出牆外。
Joseph is a fruitful bough, even a fruitful bough by a well; whose branches run over the wall:

49:23    弓箭手將他苦害，向他射箭，逼迫他。
The archers have sorely grieved him, and shot at him, and hated him:

49:24    但他的弓仍舊堅硬。他的手健壯敏捷。這是因以色列的牧者，以色列的磐石就是雅各的大能者。
But his bow abode in strength, and the arms of his hands were made strong by the hands of the mighty God of Jacob; (from thence is the shepherd, the stone of Israel:)

49:25    你父親的神必幫助你。那全能者必將天上所有的福，地裡所藏的福，以及生產乳養的福，都賜給你。
Even by the God of thy father, who shall help thee; and by the Almighty, who shall bless thee with blessings of heaven above, blessings of the deep that lieth under, blessings of the breasts, and of the womb:

49:26    你父親所祝的福，勝過我祖先所祝的福，如永世的山嶺，至極的邊界。這些福必降在約瑟的頭上，臨列那與弟兄迥別之人的頂上。
The blessings of thy father have prevailed above the blessings of my progenitors unto the utmost bound of the everlasting hills: they shall be on the head of Joseph, and on the crown of the head of him that was separate from his brethren.

49:27    便雅憫是個撕掠的狼，早晨要吃他所抓的，晚上要分他所奪的。
Benjamin shall ravin as a wolf: in the morning he shall devour the prey, and at night he shall divide the spoil.

49:28    這一切是以色列的十二支派。這也是他們的父親對他們所說的話，為他們所祝的福，都是按著各人的福分為他們祝福。
All these are the twelve tribes of Israel: and this is it that their father spake unto them, and blessed them; every one according to his blessing he blessed them.

49:29    他又囑咐他們說，我將要歸到我列祖（原文作本民）那裡，你們要將我葬在赫人以弗侖田間的洞裡，與我祖我父在一處，
And he charged them, and said unto them, I am to be gathered unto my people: bury me with my fathers in the cave that is in the field of Ephron the Hittite,

49:30    就是在迦南地幔利前，麥比拉田間的洞。那洞和田是亞伯拉罕向赫人以弗侖買來為業，作墳地的。
In the cave that is in the field of Machpelah, which is before Mamre, in the land of Canaan, which Abraham bought with the field of Ephron the Hittite for a possession of a buryingplace.

49:31    他們在那裡葬了亞伯拉罕和他妻撒拉，又在那裡葬了以撒和他的妻子利百加。我也在那裡葬了利亞。
There they buried Abraham and Sarah his wife; there they buried Isaac and Rebekah his wife; and there I buried Leah.

49:32    那塊田和田間的洞原是向赫人買的。
The purchase of the field and of the cave that is therein was from the children of Heth.

49:33    雅各囑咐眾子已畢，就把腳收在床上，氣絕而死，歸到列祖（原文作本民）那裡去了。
And when Jacob had made an end of commanding his sons, he gathered up his feet into the bed, and yielded up the ghost, and was gathered unto his people.




舊約-- 創世記(Genesis) -- 第50 章( 本篇共有50 章)    　


50:1    約瑟伏在他父親的面上哀哭，與他親嘴。
And Joseph fell upon his father's face, and wept upon him, and kissed him.

50:2    約瑟吩咐伺候他的醫生用香料薰他父親，醫生就用香料薰了以色列。
And Joseph commanded his servants the physicians to embalm his father: and the physicians embalmed Israel.

50:3    薰屍的常例是四十天。那四十天滿了，埃及人為他哀哭了七十天。
And forty days were fulfilled for him; for so are fulfilled the days of those which are embalmed: and the Egyptians mourned for him threescore and ten days.

50:4    為他哀哭的日子過了，約瑟對法老家中的人說，我若在你們眼前蒙恩，請你們報告法老說，
And when the days of his mourning were past, Joseph spake unto the house of Pharaoh, saying, If now I have found grace in your eyes, speak, I pray you, in the ears of Pharaoh, saying,

50:5    我父親要死的時候叫我起誓說，你要將我葬在迦南地，在我為自己所掘的墳墓裡。現在求你讓我上去葬我父親，以後我必回來。
My father made me swear, saying, Lo, I die: in my grave which I have digged for me in the land of Canaan, there shalt thou bury me. Now therefore let me go up, I pray thee, and bury my father, and I will come again.

50:6    法老說，你可以上去，照著你父親叫你起的誓，將他葬埋。
And Pharaoh said, Go up, and bury thy father, according as he made thee swear.

50:7    於是約瑟上去葬他父親。與他一同上去的，有法老的臣僕和法老家中的長老，並埃及國的長老，
And Joseph went up to bury his father: and with him went up all the servants of Pharaoh, the elders of his house, and all the elders of the land of Egypt,

50:8    還有約瑟的全家和他的弟兄們，並他父親的眷屬。只有他們的婦人孩子，和羊群牛群，都留在歌珊地。
And all the house of Joseph, and his brethren, and his father's house: only their little ones, and their flocks, and their herds, they left in the land of Goshen.

50:9    又有車輛馬兵，和他一同上去。那一幫人甚多。
And there went up with him both chariots and horsemen: and it was a very great company.

50:10    他們到了約旦河外，亞達的禾場，就在那裡大大地號啕痛哭。約瑟為他父親哀哭了七天。
And they came to the threshingfloor of Atad, which is beyond Jordan, and there they mourned with a great and very sore lamentation: and he made a mourning for his father seven days.

50:11    迦南的居民見亞達禾場上的哀哭，就說，這是埃及人一場大的哀哭。因此那地方名叫亞伯麥西，是在約旦河東。
And when the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, saw the mourning in the floor of Atad, they said, This is a grievous mourning to the Egyptians: wherefore the name of it was called Abelmizraim, which is beyond Jordan.

50:12    雅各的兒子們就遵著他父親所吩咐的辦了，
And his sons did unto him according as he commanded them:

50:13    把他搬到迦南地，葬在幔利前，麥比拉田間的洞裡。那洞和田是亞伯拉罕向赫人以弗侖買來為業，作墳地的。
For his sons carried him into the land of Canaan, and buried him in the cave of the field of Machpelah, which Abraham bought with the field for a possession of a buryingplace of Ephron the Hittite, before Mamre.

50:14    約瑟葬了他父親以後，就和眾弟兄，並一切同他上去葬他父親的人，都回埃及去了。
And Joseph returned into Egypt, he, and his brethren, and all that went up with him to bury his father, after he had buried his father.

50:15    約瑟的哥哥們見父親死了，就說，或者約瑟懷恨我們，照著我們從前待他一切的惡足足地報復我們。
And when Joseph's brethren saw that their father was dead, they said, Joseph will peradventure hate us, and will certainly requite us all the evil which we did unto him.

50:16    他們就打發人去見約瑟，說，你父親未死以先吩咐說，
And they sent a messenger unto Joseph, saying, Thy father did command before he died, saying,

50:17    你們要對約瑟這樣說，從前你哥哥們惡待你，求你饒恕他們的過犯和罪惡。如今求你饒恕你父親神之僕人的過犯。他們對約瑟說這話，約瑟就哭了。
So shall ye say unto Joseph, Forgive, I pray thee now, the trespass of thy brethren, and their sin; for they did unto thee evil: and now, we pray thee, forgive the trespass of the servants of the God of thy father. And Joseph wept when they spake unto him.

50:18    他的哥哥們又來俯伏在他面前，說，我們是你的僕人。
And his brethren also went and fell down before his face; and they said, Behold, we be thy servants.

50:19    約瑟對他們說，不要害怕，我豈能代替神呢。
And Joseph said unto them, Fear not: for am I in the place of God?

50:20    從前你們的意思是要害我，但神的意思原是好的，要保全許多人的性命，成就今日的光景。
But as for you, ye thought evil against me; but God meant it unto good, to bring to pass, as it is this day, to save much people alive.

50:21    現在你們不要害怕，我必養活你們和你們的婦人孩子。於是約瑟用親愛的話安慰他們。
Now therefore fear ye not: I will nourish you, and your little ones. And he comforted them, and spake kindly unto them.

50:22    約瑟和他父親的眷屬都住在埃及。約瑟活了一百一十歲。
And Joseph dwelt in Egypt, he, and his father's house: and Joseph lived an hundred and ten years.

50:23    約瑟得見以法蓮第三代的子孫。瑪拿西的孫子，瑪吉的兒子也養在約瑟的膝上。
And Joseph saw Ephraim's children of the third generation: the children also of Machir the son of Manasseh were brought up upon Joseph's knees.

50:24    約瑟對他弟兄們說，我要死了，但神必定看顧你們，領你們從這地上去，到他起誓所應許給亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各之地。
And Joseph said unto his brethren, I die: and God will surely visit you, and bring you out of this land unto the land which he sware to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.

50:25    約瑟叫以色列的子孫起誓說，神必定看顧你們。你們要把我的骸骨從這裡搬上去。
And Joseph took an oath of the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you, and ye shall carry up my bones from hence.

50:26    約瑟死了，正一百一十歲。人用香料將他薰了，把他收殮在棺材裡，停在埃及。
So Joseph died, being an hundred and ten years old: and they embalmed him, and he was put in a coffin in Egypt.
